#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/introduction-to-ben-jonson-poems-plays-and-shakespeare.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/hamlet-beyond-the-famous-soliloquy.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/introduction-to-ben-jonson-poems-plays-and-shakespeare.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/Online_Chemistry_Bachelors_Degree_Program_Information.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/shakespeares-sonnet-18-summary-theme-analysis.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/foreign-language.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/introduction-to-ben-jonson-poems-plays-and-shakespeare.html&width=100&
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Introduction to Ben Jonson: Poems, Plays and Shakespeare - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: Introduction to Ben Jonson: Poems, Plays and Shakespeare To a great deal of people, for a great deal of time, English playwright and poet Ben Jonson was known merely as a rival (and inferior) to William Shakespeare. But there's more to the story than that! Watch our video lesson to get the skinny on Jonson's life and work.  English 101: English Literature  /  English Courses Course Navigator Introduction to 17th- and 18th-Century Literature: Major Authors and WorksNext Lesson  Introduction to Ben Jonson: Poems, Plays and Shakespeare Chapter 4 /  Lesson 16   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - The Works of Ben Jonson Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: Introduction to 17th- and 18th-Century Literature: Major Authors and Works 0:03 Introduction 1:40 Plays 4:20 Courtly Life 7:12 Poetry 9:02 Shakespeare 10:46 Conclusion Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 6,341 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses Metaphysical Poetry: Definition, Characteristics & Examples Neoclassical Literature: Definition, Characteristics & Movement Introduction to 17th- and 18th-Century Literature: Major Authors and Works The Restoration Period in English Literature: Timeline & Overview Introduction to Victorian Literature: Overview of Themes, Style, and Authors Milton's Paradise Lost: Summary, Theme, and Quotes Shakespeare's Sonnet 18: Summary, Theme & Analysis Renaissance Literature: Characteristics & Writers The Rape of the Lock: Pope's Mock Heroic Poetry Alexander Pope's An Essay on Criticism: Summary & Analysis Introduction to Renaissance Literature: Characterizing Authors and Works On My First Son by Ben Jonson: Summary, Theme & Analysis Introduction to Shakespeare: Life and Works Cavalier Poetry: Definition, Characteristics & Examples Shakespeare's Tragedy Plays: Elements & Structure Introduction to Christopher Marlowe: Biography and Plays The Imagist Movement: Poems, Examples & Key Poets Introduction to Medieval Literature: Old English, Middle English, and Historical Context Jonathan Swift and Satire: Examples and Analysis Restoration Comedy: Theatre of the 1700s Praxis English Language Arts - Content Knowledge: Practice & Study Guide CLEP College Composition: Study Guide & Test Prep CLEP English Literature: Study Guide & Test Prep CLEP American Literature: Study Guide & Test Prep NES English Language Arts: Test Practice & Study Guide English Composition: Certificate Program English Literature: Certificate Program American Literature: Certificate Program CEOE Middle Level English: Practice & Study Guide SAT Subject Test Literature: Practice and Study Guide English 102: American Literature College English Literature: Help and Review SAT Literature: Help and Review 9th Grade English: Homework Help Resource 9th Grade English: Help and Review AP English Literature: Help and Review 10th Grade English: Help and Review 12th Grade English: Homework Help Resource AP English Literature: Homework Help Resource 10th Grade English: High School Lesson Transcript Instructor: Ellie Green Ellie holds a B.A. with Honors in English from Stanford University. She is pursuing a Ph.D. in English Literature at Princeton University. To a great deal of people, for a great deal of time, English playwright and poet Ben Jonson was known merely as a rival (and inferior) to William Shakespeare. But there's more to the story than that! Watch our video lesson to get the skinny on Jonson's life and work. Introduction Nowadays if there's a really famous person and they have hanger-on friends, we typically know about the famous person and we don't know about the friends. This was true even back in Renaissance times, and this kind of had the negative effect of making Ben Jonson someone that we don't really have such great name association with. We do have great name association with his more famous buddy William Shakespeare. Ben Jonson was a contemporary friend and rival of Shakespeare's; unfortunately, his work and life have been a bit eclipsed by the man we call the Bard. Things weren't always that way, though; this is kind of a modern thing. There was a point in time where Jonson's fame was even greater than Shakespeare's, if you can imagine that, and critical revision in the centuries since his life ended changed that a bit. But there's importance to his skill, and he has a massive catalog of plays and poems that are not insignificant; he's still a talented guy that we should know about. We shouldn't just cast him into the annals of history and say 'he wasn't as good as Shakespeare.' He's an interesting dude in his own right. He was born in London in 1572. By the age of 25, he's already deeply entrenched in the city's burgeoning dramatic culture. In particular, he's taken up a position with a theater company called The Admiral's Men. He's an actor and a writer just like Shakespeare - he kind of did both; most reports we get from this time show that he didn't really have that much success as an actor, but he tried, and his plays are starting to bring him some real attention. Plays His first major success came not with The Admiral's Men but with another company called The Lord Chamberlain's Men - if you're wondering, it's because pretty much all the actors back then were men. That's a plot point in Shakespeare in Love - Gwyneth Paltrow dresses up as a dude to be in a play, and then she dresses up as a woman. That's how things were back then. In 1598 The Lord Chamberlain's Men put up his comedy, Every Man in His Humour, which is a play that exhibits several really important Jonson traits. We're going to pause for a second here and talk about some of these traits so that we can see them as we describe some more of his plays. He loved classical style. He took his plotting cues more from Aristotle and other Greeks and Romans rather than his English contemporaries, especially because his stories tended (more so than his contemporaries) to really emphasize dramatic unity. So he would try to follow the rules set down by Greek and Roman theater. He was really into farcical characters, which are just people who are defined by their really exaggerated traits. Like if you've got a drunkard with a huge red nose or something like that - that would be a farcical character. He's into absurdity kind of along those lines - over-the-top, unreal comic situations. Kind of like anything you might see on Adult Swim late at night. He's also into presenting contemporary life. That's a real goal of his. This last one is really central to his mission statement, and a lot of where he finds success is in doing this. He explicitly states in his prologue for the published edition of Every Man in His Humour that he intends to use 'deeds, and language, such as men do use:/And persons, such as comedy would choose,/When she would show an image of the times,/And sport with human follies, not with crimes.' That's sort of his take on what he's doing with this. Every Man in His Humour is notable not just for its form but also for its production - a young William Shakespeare was cast to act in this comedy. Recorded details of their relationship are kind of spotty, but people generally assume that this is when they got to know each other and when they started working together. That's kind of how they encountered each other. By the way, a year later, Jonson released a follow-up to the play called Every Man out of His Humour, which seems to be a pretty clear attempt to cash in on the success of the prior one. It's kind of nice to know that people still did that back then; it's not just a modern phenomenon that we release Shrek 6 or whatever. Jonson did it too. Does that make it more legitimate? I don't know. Courtly Life Jonson had a certain amount of success, and a few years after he really gets going. Beginning with the reign of James I in 1603, - so Elizabeth I dies and is succeeded by James I - Jonson actually enjoys a certain amount of royal favor, and he gets a yearly stipend from the English court essentially. His position really gets some people calling him England's first poet laureate. There wasn't really a term for it then, but that was kind of what he was. It also led to a new, interesting direction in Jonson's career. His interest was now also invested in writing royal masques, which were basically just elaborate stage productions that include acting, dancing, and music that are performed at court. This paid a ton better than being a public playwright. In the course of doing this Jonson produced two dozen masques. He produced a whole bunch. Some of them are really considered to be premiere examples of the form. He does a masque really well. These are things like The Satyr, which is a celebratory exploration of English folklore, and also The Masque of Blackness, which is about African ladies arriving at court so James could cleanse them of their dark skin, which is problematic to say the least. Though it actually went over pretty well at the time because they had different understandings of what was okay. Anyway, The Masque of Blackness is one of his legacy pieces. Even though that one was surprisingly not that controversial, other works that he did did land him in hot water. There were many times before he got this patronage that he was arrested and jailed for offensive material. He even had information about the Guy Fawkes plot, the plot to blow up parliament - 'remember, remember, the fifth of November,' all that V for Vendetta stuff. He had to reveal all that he knew in order to avoid punishment, so he was kind of in the thick of all this stuff. At any rate, the middle period of Jonson's life was free of legal trouble, and it was generally pretty much his most successful time. He produced work really considered his best, like 1605's Volpone, which is kind of a combination beast fable/comedy thing. This is his most-performed play. In 1614 he publishes Bartholomew Fair and also the hilariously named 1616 The Devil is an Ass; that just gets right to the point. 1610 has The Alchemist - not the novel by that guy recently. This last effort is really an examination of destructive greed; it's especially notable in that Romantic poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge called it one of the three most perfect plots in literature, so Coleridge liked it. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Poetry We've talked about his plays, we've talked about those courtly masques; it behooves us to mention that he did write some poetry and it was pretty good. Like his stage writings, it's pretty clearly connected to Greek and Roman sources in its form. He's also considered to be at the vanguard of a new form of poetry known as Cavalier poetry, which is described as an elegant, graceful, relatively straightforward and often amorous expression of courtly thought. Sounds nice, doesn't it? Cavalier poets are not really that concerned with extended metaphors or textual riddles; they're not that into words working their magic. They kind of prefer direct, beautifully worded forms of expression. Jonson's notable for a few lyrics that really excel at this. The most famous is actually an ode to his deceased son, which is sad - kind of a heavy topic, especially because his plays are so comic; it's sort of an interesting switch. And it's actually so short and it's so nice that we're actually just going to read it to you here so you can get a sense of what his poetry sounds like. Here we go. 'Farewell, thou child of my right hand, and joy; My sinne was too much hope of thee, lov'd boy; Seven yeeres tho' wert lent to me, and I thee pay, Exacted by thy fate, on the just day. O, could I loose all father, now. For why Will man lament the state he should envie? To have so soon scap'd worlds and fleshes rage, And, if no other miserie, yet age? Rest in soft peace, and, ask'd, say here doth lye Ben. Jonson his best piece of poetrie. For whose sake, hence-forth, all his vowes be such, As what he loves may never like too much.' So it's very sweet. He's saying that his son is his best work of poetry, which is very nice. So that's an example of Jonson's lyric. Shakespeare Because we have to talk about it, Shakespeare's kind of ghosted in and out of this lesson. Jonson and Shakespeare were thought to be rivals. Common critical conception, at least in the 20th century, was that Jonson was kind of the foremost practitioner of real, sculpted verbal excellence - he was a good craftsman - where Shakespeare kind of represented unfettered natural genius. Of course, in reality Shakespeare knew his dramatic forms just fine, and Jonson was creative as well, but this was sort of the easy way to classify them. It kind of seals their fates later; that's why Jonson's fallen out of favor - no one thinks he's as creative and dramatic as Shakespeare is. But despite their opposition, which even was there when they were living - they were rivals contemporaneously as well as later - and despite Jonson's reported high opinion of himself, they weren't really enemies. Jonson had a lot of respect for Shakespeare, and he actually contributed two poems to the front of Shakespeare's first published folio in 1623. It could be these poems that really contribute to the public's conception of Shakespeare as a natural genius; it could be Jonson's characterization of him. In that case, Jonson kind of dug his own grave in terms of his reception later on. He writes a very sweet poem about Shakespeare after his death - 'To the Memory of My Beloved Master William Shakespeare, and What He Hath Left Us.' It's in that poem that he says - and maybe now it sounds cheesy, but then it probably sounded really nice - 'he was not of an age, but for all time,' which turns out to be very, very true. So Jonson got it in one. Conclusion Just to sum things up a little bit, there's temptation to remember Jonson solely in opposition to Shakespeare. I've fallen into that trap a little bit during this lesson; I will not tell a lie. The truth is that he really did have a rich career full of plays, masques and poems all his own. He's really noteworthy for his farcical humor and absurdity as well as his real skill with language and his indebtedness to the Greeks. He was really into making things follow Greek form. His most famous play is Volpone, which, like I said before, is a fox, so it's kind of a beast fable-y play, which is very cool. He also produced lyric poems and fathered the group of poets known as the Cavalier poets. He might have said some kind of rough stuff about Shakespeare during his lifetime, but he really did respect him, and he cemented the reputation that Shakespeare has today with that lovely poem he wrote after his death. And that's Ben Jonson in a nutshell. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the English 101: English Literature page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Saylor.org Student Diary: Shakespeare's Subconscious? Saylor.org Student Diary: First Impressions of Shakespeare Online Get Into Shakespeare: 10 Top Shakespeare Blogs Saylor.org Student Diary: The Final Entry Drama Classes for the Non-Dramatic Tomorrow 'Tis Talk Like Shakespeare Day, Methinks Saylor.org Student Diary: Tragedy - Print, Not IRL Saylor.org Student Diary: Doing Things My Way Saylor.org Student Diary: The Marriage Plot Saylor.org Student Diary: All's Well That Ends Well? Ground Stewardess: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Online Chemistry Bachelor's Degree Program Information Air Force Fighter Pilot: Duties, Requirements and Salary Autocad Technology Certificate Programs in Arizona HR Management Degree Top Ranked Human Resource Management Degree Program - Richmond VA Online Biochemistry Course Marketing Degree Top University to Be a Marketing Major - Baltimore MD Medical Assisting School Top School for Becoming a Medical Assistant or Physician Assistant - Tampa FL × Course Navigator  Back To Course English 101: English Literature 12 chapters | 120 lessons 1 - Introduction to English Literature Go to Introduction to English Literature 2 - Literary Terms and Analysis Go to Literary Terms and Analysis 3 - Old and Middle English Literature Go to Old and Middle English Literature 4 - The Renaissance in English Literature Introduction to Renaissance Literature: Characterizing Authors and Works 11:40 Introduction to Shakespeare: Life and Works 16:45 Richard III: Fact and Fiction in Shakespeare's History Plays 27:02 Romeo and Juliet: Shakespeare's Famous Star-Crossed Lovers 17:41 Julius Caesar: Shakespeare's Play vs. History 18:51 A Midsummer Night's Dream: Summary, Quotes and Characters 19:38 Twelfth Night: Themes, Quotes and Cross-Dressing Characters 17:22 Hamlet: Beyond the Famous Soliloquy 17:03 Othello: Racism and Shakespeare 19:54 Shakespeare's King Lear: My Three Daughters 18:49 Macbeth: Themes and Quotes from the Scottish Play 16:35 The Tempest: Colonialism and Magic in Shakespeare 19:14 Shakespeare's Sonnets: Reading and Interpreting the Major Poems 14:38 Introduction to Christopher Marlowe: Biography and Plays 9:39 Introduction to Edmund Spenser: The Faerie Queene and Sonnets 10:46 Introduction to Ben Jonson: Poems, Plays and Shakespeare 11:47 Go to The Renaissance in English Literature 5 - 17th and 18th Century English Literature Go to 17th and 18th Century English Literature 6 - Romantic Prose in English Literature Go to Romantic Prose in English Literature 7 - Romantic Poetry in English Literature Go to Romantic Poetry in English Literature 8 - Victorian Literature Go to Victorian Literature 9 - Turn-of-the-Century Literature Go to Turn-of-the-Century Literature 10 - Modernism in English Literature Go to Modernism in English Literature 11 - Nonfiction in English Literature Go to Nonfiction in English Literature 12 - Analyzing English Literature Go to Analyzing English Literature Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
