#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/topic/analyze-texts-ccssela-literacyw89.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/reading-strategies-using-visualization.html
http://study.com/academy/course/common-core-ela-standards-grade-8-writing.html
http://study.com/dental_hygienist_schools_in_wisconsin.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences.html
http://study.com/pages/Contractors.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Analyze Texts: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.9 - Videos & Lessons | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies  Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Writing: Standards First Lesson  Ch 8: Analyze Texts: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.9 Overview Exams Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today About This Chapter Use the following lessons to enhance your understanding of the Common Core English Language Arts requirements, and teach 8th-grade students how to analyze literature and literary nonfiction. Decide if your students have met the standards-based competencies, and find useful tips on how to use the lessons in your classroom. Standard: Draw evidence from literary or informational texts to support analysis, reflection and research. About This Chapter Students who have mastered this standard know how to apply 8th-grade reading standards to literature and examine how a work of fiction makes use of the themes, characters and plots found in myths, traditional tales or religious stories, including the Bible. They also know how to apply grade-level standards to literary nonfiction, and evaluate the credibility and evidence of an argument. The lessons included in the analyzing texts standard cover topics in: The step-by-step analysis of a literary passage Reading comprehension Literary inference and its limits Contextual clues and meaning, including prior knowledge and word structure The use of visualization as a reading strategy to construe meaning, dramatize the text and feel empathy for a character or situation Close reading versus big picture reading strategies Interpreting literary meaning and the importance of words Informational texts and evidence, including analysis, meaning and plausibility. Students provide proof of mastery by using reading comprehension strategies to construe meaning from literary works. They understand and apply the difference between big picture and close reading when comparing an overall theme with a more in-depth analysis of a specific passage. Students use context to fill in the gaps in a written work and determine the importance of words to find literary meaning. They can also identify the main point, weigh evidence and assess plausibility in an essay. How to Use These Lessons in Your Classroom Step-by-Step Analysis of a Literary Passage Lesson Watch and review the step-by-step analysis of a literary passage lesson. Assign a short passage of fiction for homework, such as a fable or a myth. Ask students to write a short essay in which they address the main literary components of the story, including theme, characters, setting and plot, as well as how these elements contributed to their enjoyment (or lack of enjoyment) of the written work. Literary Context Lesson Assign the literary context lesson for homework, and follow up with a discussion of definitions, antonyms, synonyms and word substitutions. Distribute a short informational or literary passage with complex or unfamiliar words, and have students try to determine their meaning from the surrounding text. No dictionaries allowed! Reading Strategy and Visualization Lesson View and discuss the reading strategy and visualization lesson in class. For homework, ask students to prepare a short pantomime to dramatize an existing or original narrative text and elicit sympathy (or another emotion) for their character. Follow up with a discussion on how the activity enhanced their ability to write, or write about, the passage. Close Reading vs. Big Picture Reading Lesson After watching the reading lesson, either in class or for homework, have students read a short literary passage, using both the big picture and close reading approaches. As a homework assignment, students must identify the main ideas of the passage and create a comic strip or a storyboard about a specific character action or event. 7 Lessons in Chapter 8: Analyze Texts: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.9 1. How to Analyze a Literary Passage: A Step-by-Step Guide In this lesson, we will examine the steps involved in the basic analysis of literature. Then, using a well-known fable, we will go through each step of analysis: comprehension, interpreting and drawing conclusions. 2. What is Inference? - How to Infer Intended Meaning In this lesson, we will define the terms inference and intended meaning. We will then discuss what steps to take when making inferences in literature. 3. Constructing Meaning with Context Clues, Prior Knowledge & Word Structure In this lesson, you will learn how readers use prior knowledge, context clues and word structure to aid their understanding of what they read. Explore these strategies through examples from literature and everyday life. 4. Reading Strategies Using Visualization In this lesson, we will define visualization. We will then discuss why this step is important, how we can visualize, and when you should visualize. Finally, we will look at a sample from a poem and practice visualizing. 5. How to Use Context to Determine the Meaning of Words With diligence and intrepid ingenuity, you can use context to ascertain the purport of a word. In other words, in this lesson we'll find out how to use context to figure out what words mean. 6. Close Reading vs. Big Picture Reading Strategies In this lesson, learn about two different approaches to reading a work of literature: big picture strategies and close reading strategies. Discover how these two perspectives can be put into practice through examples from the play 'Romeo and Juliet.' 7. Interpreting Literary Meaning: How to Use Text to Guide Your Interpretation In this lesson, we will discuss how to find and interpret literary meaning in writings. The lesson will focus on using the text to find key elements to guide your interpretation. Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Practice Exams Final Exam Status Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Writing: Standards Status: Not Started  Take Exam Chapter Exam Status Analyze Texts: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.9 Status: Not Started  Take Exam Description Summary: Visit the Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Writing: Standards page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Teaching ESL: Education Requirements to Teach Students The Debate Around Common Core Standards Instructor Uses Study.com's Online Educational Videos to Enhance Classroom Learning Experience for Students How to Teach English As a Second Language Student Loans: Deciding How Much to Borrow 25 Legitimately Useful Sites for College Students Management Tips for the Working Student Study.com's Insider Tips for Students What Would a Common Curriculum Mean for Teachers and Students? English Language and Literature Major: Information and Requirements Fort Worth, TX Career Outlook: Fastest Growing Fort Worth Careers Online Archaeology Degree Program Information Online Degree Options for Poem Writing: Program Information Dental Hygienist Schools in Wisconsin Programming School Top School for Becoming a Computer Programmer - Baltimore MD Database Training Top School with Degree Programs in Database Administration - Morrisville NC Nursing Schools in Baltimore MD Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City NY Other Chapters Other Chapters Other chapters within the Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Writing: Standards course Writing Arguments: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.1 Writing Informative Texts: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.2 Writing Narratives: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.3 Writing Development, Organization & Style: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.4 Revising & Editing: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.5 Conducting Research: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.7 Finding & Citing Sources: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.8 Writing Practice: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.W.8.10 Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Watch all the video lessons you want free for 5 days Select a plan to try & see why over 10 million users love Study.com Start Free Trial Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
