#ThisURL#
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_Career_Diploma_Caterer.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/school/Penn_Foster_Career_School.html#tab1
http://study.com/directory/school/Penn_Foster_Career_School.html#tab0
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_Career_Diploma_Caterer.html#tuitionStartDates
http://study.com/directory/school/Penn_Foster_Career_School.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Penn+Foster
http://study.com/
#Title#
Penn Foster | Career Diploma: Caterer
#Content#
WHY US? MORE PROGRAMS Penn Foster Career School  /  Career Diploma: Caterer Career Diploma: Caterer Penn Foster Career School's Caterer Career Diploma Program is designed to train students to prepare and serve meals. Read more about the program here. Tuition & Aid Start Dates To speak to an enrollment counselor, please call 1-877-823-3442 Official Program Name: Caterer School Offering Program: Penn Foster Career School Program Level: Career Diploma Program Description: Penn Foster Career School's Caterer Career Diploma Program gives students the opportunity to learn study food styles in catering, the gourmet kitchen, and the culinary profession. Students can learn about preparing poultry, fish, game, and shellfish, stocks, sauces, and soup, garnishes beverages, baked goods, and pastries. The caterer program is also designed to teach students about different cuts of meat and how to prepare them. Students are given the opportunity to learn about both basic and advanced food presentations. This program is also intended to teach students about kitchen layout and design. The program can be completed in as little as six months, though students can take longer to finish the program if necessary. Program Materials Supplied by Penn Foster Career School: Penn Foster provides Caterer Career Diploma students with the materials necessary to complete this program, including books, lessons, and learning aids. The program also includes recipe supplements and video demonstrations. Learning Format: Online Financial Aid: Penn Foster offers low tuition, 0% APR financing, and affordable monthly payments to be completed upon graduation. Required Courses for a Caterer Career Diploma: Program and course requirements are subject to change. Contact Penn Foster Career School to confirm the most accurate information before enrolling in a program. Instruction Set 1 Learning Strategies Introduction to Catering Instruction Set 2 Dynamics of Catering Food Styles of Catering Alcoholic Beverages Instruction Set 3 The Gourmet Kitchen The Culinary Professional Instruction Set 4 Stocks, Sauces, and Soups Fruits, Vegetables, and Herbs Instruction Set 5 Meat Instruction Set 6 Poultry and Game Instruction Set 7 Fish and Shellfish Instruction Set 8 Grains, Legumes, and Pasta Instruction Set 9 Baking and Pastry Instruction Set 10 Breakfast, Garde Manger, and World Cuisines Post-Graduation Opportunities Furthering Your Education: Graduates of Penn Foster's Catering Career Diploma Program may be interested in continuing their education by pursuing an associate degree in the culinary arts field. Earning an associate degree gives students the opportunity to learn more about culinary arts and possibly seek higher positions in the culinary field. Associate degrees include (but are not limited to): Associate in Applied Science in Baking and Pastry Associate of Food and Beverage Management Associate of Hotel & Restaurant Management Associate of International Baking and Pastry Associate of Professional Catering Career Paths: Students who complete the Catering Career Diploma Program may be able to seek entry-level catering positions in hotels, restaurants, cafeterias, or resorts. They might also be able to open their own catering business. Tuition, Financial Aid & Start Dates Since every student is different, there isn't a "one size fits all" for school information. Start dates and tuition often vary between selected programs, and financial aid opportunities are unique to each student's circumstances. Complete the form to the right to get the most up-to-date and accurate information based on your selected program and circumstances. Still have questions? Complete this form to request more info and get your answers and advice. Get your customized answers Call 1-877-823-3442 to speak with an enrollment counselor or simply complete the form below to get program details, tuition, start dates, financial aid, and how to choose the right program for you. When do you plan on starting? --- Select One --- Immediately 1-3 months 4-6 months 6 or more months Unknown On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) What is your highest level of education? --- Select One --- Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) What program are you interested in? --- Select One --- Certificate - Accounting Essentials Certificate - Advanced Paralegal Applications Certificate - Anatomy and Physiology Certificate - Autocad Essentials Certificate - Automotive HVAC Essentials Certificate - Automotive Transmissions Essentials Certificate - Business Management Essentials Certificate - Business Security Certificate - Child Psychology Certificate - Computer Programming Languages Certificate - Electronic Medical Records Certificate - English: Comprehensive Skills in Reading and Writing Certificate - Gourmet Cooking Certificate - Health Information Management Certificate - Human Resource Management Essentials Certificate - Medical Terminology Certificate - Microsoft Office 2013 (software Included) Certificate - Natural Health Care for Pets Certificate - Pc Fundamentals Certificate - Pet Grooming Certificate - Property Management Certificate - Public Relations Certificate - Real Estate, Wills, and Estates for Paralegals - Certificate - Spanish Certificate - Sports Nutrition Career Diploma - Administrative Assistant Career Diploma - Appliance Repair Career Diploma - Auto Repair Technician Career Diploma - Bookkeeping Career Diploma - Caterer Career Diploma - Certified Personal Trainer Career Diploma - Certified Wedding Planner Career Diploma - Child Day Care Career Diploma - Computer Graphic Artist Career Diploma - Computer Support Technician Career Diploma - Dental Assistant Career Diploma - Drafting with AutoCAD Career Diploma - Electronics Technician Career Diploma - Floral Design Career Diploma - Freelance Writer Career Diploma - Furniture and Cabinet Maker Career Diploma - Gunsmith Career Diploma - HVACR Technician Career Diploma - Home Remodeling and Repair Career Diploma - Interior Decorator Career Diploma - Jewelry Design and Repair Career Diploma - Landscaping Technology Career Diploma - Legal Secretary Career Diploma - Legal Transcriptionist Career Diploma - Medical Administrative Assistant Career Diploma - Medical Billing and Coding Career Diploma - Medical Transcriptionist Career Diploma - Optician Career Diploma - PC Maintenance and Repair Career Diploma - Paralegal Career Diploma - Pharmacy Technician Career Diploma - Physical Therapy Aide Career Diploma - Professional Locksmithing Career Diploma - Small Business Management Career Diploma - Small Engine Repair Career Diploma - Teacher Aide Career Diploma - Veterinary Assistant Career Diploma - Web Page Designer Career Diploma - Wildlife/Forestry Conservation What is your age? --- Select One --- 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 99% of jobs with a median salary of $75k+ require a Bachelor's Degree or higher. (Source: BLS.gov/ooh) What is your gender? --- Select One --- Male Female Email: Zip Code: Your Name First Name: Last Name: 94% of college-bound high school students said it was important to communicate with colleges during the search process. (Source: Noel-Levitz 2012 trend study) Contact Information Address: City: State: --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces Africa Armed Forces America Armed Forces Canada Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Middle East Armed Forces Pacific Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. You're Almost Done Primary Phone: Don't worry, we value your privacy. Your phone number is not shared with other schools. Mobile Other By submitting this form, I agree to be contacted via email and/or telephone, using an automated technology, regarding the educational program I selected. Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. For comprehensive consumer information click here Penn Foster Career School is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC), which is listed by the U.S. Department of Education as a nationally recognized accrediting agency. Penn Foster Career School is regionally accredited by the Commission on Secondary Schools of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. The Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council is also a recognized member of the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). Penn Foster Career School is licensed by the Pennsylvania State Board of Private Licensed Schools. The undergraduate certificate programs being offered through Penn Foster College are certificate programs, not degree programs. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © copyright 2003-2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
