#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Alternative_Medicine_How_to_Become_an_Acupressure_Technician.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/Online_Alternative_Medicine_Degrees_by_Program_Level.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/railroad_conductor_degree.html
http://study.com/articles/Human_Behavior_Masters_Degree_Program_Information.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Alternative Medicine: How to Become an Acupressure Technician
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Medical and Health Professions  /  Alternative Medicine  /  Acupuncture and Acupressure Medical and Health Professions Alternative Medicine Alternative and Complementary Medicine Herbalist Homeopathic Medicine Hypnotherapy Movement Therapies Naturopathic Medicine Polarity Therapy Traditional Eastern Medicine and Herbology Yoga Therapy and Instructor Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Glossary of Career Education Programs  /  Medical and Health Professions  /  Alternative Medicine: How to Become... Alternative Medicine: How to Become an Acupressure Technician Learn how to become an acupressure technician. Research the education requirements, training and licensure information and experience required for starting a career in acupressure. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Should I Become an Acupressure Technician? Acupressure is often referred to as Asian bodywork therapy (ABT) and is considered to be one component of traditional Chinese medicine. Acupressure technicians provide hands-on bodywork therapy by pressing on or otherwise massaging specific points on the body. Pressure applied to these points alleviates related symptoms and improves overall wellness. Some practitioners practice acupressure exclusively, while others combine acupressure with acupuncture, moxibustion or other therapeutic modalities. This work can be physically demanding, and techs must take precautions to prevent personal injury. Some are self-employed and must spend sufficient time finding new clients and sometimes work evenings or weekends to complete bookkeeping work or to meet clients' scheduling needs. Career Requirements Degree Level Undergraduate coursework (500 hours) or degree may be required for licensure Degree Field Massage therapy or a closely related field Licensure and Certification Requirements vary by state, may include CPR certification Experience Required hours vary by employer Key Skills Communication skills, empathy, ability to interact with many types of people Salary (2014) $37,180 is the median annual wage for massage therapists Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, American Association of Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine. Step One: Enroll in a Postsecondary Massage Therapy Program There are a variety of program options for preparing students to practice acupressure. These programs can vary in length, cost and topics covered, as well as how they prepare graduates for certification. Depending on the type of program students choose, certain educational prerequisites may be required, which can include students being at least 18 years of age and having completed a high school diploma or equivalent. Other programs may require a certain number of college credits or science coursework. In most states, students will need to meet the state requirements for becoming a licensed massage therapist in order to practice acupressure. Therefore, students should look for programs that are approved by their state's licensing board for massage therapy. Approved programs will include coursework on topics such as anatomy and physiology, acupressure and massage theory and technique and professional ethics, as well as hands-on clinical experience. Students should check their state's licensing requirements before choosing a program to be sure that all requirements will be met. Step Two: Take an Approved Examination The exams commonly recognized by state licensing boards are the Massage and Bodywork Licensing Examination (MBLEx), National Certification Examination for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCETMB) and National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM). States may also offer their own examination. The format of these exams can vary by the organization and state; however, they generally required a multiple-choice section. Success Tip Prepare for the exam. The National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork (NCBTMB) offers study aids for its exam. Students can also review course materials from their massage therapy program. Step Three: Obtain Appropriate Professional Licensure or Certification The practice of massage therapy is regulated by 44 states and the District of Columbia, according to the BLS in 2012. Graduates from an approved program who have passed the required examination can pursue licensure. Many states also require candidates to maintain a current CPR certification. Graduates that do not meet requirements for a massage therapy license may have the option to be licensed as a massage technician in some states and cities. Step Four: Meet Continuing Education Requirements Once licensed, acupressure professionals will need to complete continuing education hours; however, this requirement can vary by state. For example, in New York, licensed massage therapists must pursue 36 hours of continuing education every three years, while the requirement in Tennessee is 25 hours every two years. The NCCAOM requires professionals to complete a recertification process every four years, which requires submitting evidence of meeting the continuing education requirements, as well as current CPR certification. Step Five: Consider Graduate Study Students who have interests in other areas of traditional Chinese medicine may want to consider a program that will prepare them to practice as an acupuncturist, which includes being able to prescribe herbal remedies. Master's programs in traditional Chinese medicine can last 3-4 years and cover topics like herbology and needle techniques. Studying in a program that is accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM) can help students meet the licensure requirements for acupuncture in some states, including New York and Iowa. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Alternative Medicine: How to Become an Acupressure Technician RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Alternative Medicine Professions Video: Starting a Career in Alternative Medicine Nuclear Medicine Career Video: Becoming a Nuclear Medicine Technologist Nuclear Medicine Technician Acupressure Training Career in Integrative Medicine Phd Medicine Acupressure Schools Online Alternative Medicine Degrees by Program Level Find out about online alternative medicine courses and in which degree programs they're most commonly offered. Get course... Online Alternative Medicine Schools: How to Choose Like physical therapy and nursing, alternative medicine is a very hands-on field. While many programs offer online options,... Alternative Medicine Majors: Information and Requirements A bachelor's degree program in alternative medicine teaches students to look at a patient's needs holistically. Students... Top Schools for Alternative Medicine Read about programs in alternative medicine, which can lead to a Master of Complementary and Alternative Medicine or Doctor of... Alternative Medicine: Common Adult School Programs for Alt Medicine Acupressure Certification Acupressure Class Career Info for an Alternative Medicine Degree Alternative Medicine: How to Become an Ayurveda Practitioner Job Growth in the Next Decade: Practical Medicine Jobs in Agribusiness: Career Options and Requirements How To Avoid Common Writing Mistakes How to Become an Organizational Development Consultant Online Travel Agent Degree Program Information Career Info for a Degree in Ethics for Medicine or Biology Doctoral Degree in Complementary Medicine Global Marketing Manager: Job Description & Career Info Should I Be a Mechanical Engineer? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Biomedical Engineer: Job Duties & Career Requirements Bachelor of Culinary Management Degree Overview Human Behavior Masters Degree Program Information Railroad Conductor Degree Womens Studies Degree and Certificate Program Information Hospital Case Management Certification and Certificate Program Info Computer Arts Major Masters in Cytogenetics Degree Program Overview Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Complementary and Alternative Health Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Healthcare Administration MSM in Healthcare MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety Bachelor BS Health Science BS Business Admin w/conc in Healthcare Administration BS Healthcare Administration Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration Master MBA: Health Systems Management MS in Health Care Administration Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management Bachelor BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science BS in Health Care Administration Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology Master Master of Arts in Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Health Services Administration Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 6Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA) Doctor of Nursing Practice - General Master Master of Healthcare Administration - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Project Management Bachelor Bachelor of Science - Healthcare Management With a Dental Hygiene Emphasis Associate AS in Medical Assisting Non-Degree Diploma in Medical Assisting Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 8Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 9Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Health Administration Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 10Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Alternative Medicine Chiropractor Clinical Laboratory Science Professions Communication Disorders Sciences Dental Health and Fitness Massage and Related Therapeutic Professions Medical Administrative Services Medical and Health Preparatory Sciences Medical Assisting Medical Diagnostic and Treatment Professions Medical Ethics and Bioethics Medical Informatics and Illustration Medical Residency Programs Mental Health Services Nursing Professions Nutrition Services Optometric and Ophthalmic Services Osteopathic Medicine - DO Pharmaceutical Sciences and Administration Podiatry - DPM Public Health and Safety Therapeutic and Rehabilitation Professions Veterinary Medicine and Clinical Sciences Select your specialty subject area Acupuncture and Acupressure Alternative and Complementary Medicine Herbalist Homeopathic Medicine Hypnotherapy Movement Therapies Naturopathic Medicine Polarity Therapy Traditional Eastern Medicine and Herbology Yoga Therapy and Instructor What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University BA in Complementary and Alternative Health What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Healthcare Administration MSM in Healthcare MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety BS Health Science BS Business Admin w/conc in Healthcare Administration BS Healthcare Administration View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 Grand Canyon University EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration MBA: Health Systems Management MS in Health Care Administration Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science BS in Health Care Administration Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 University of the Rockies Doctor of Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5 Baker College Online BS in Health Services Administration When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Walden University Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA) Doctor of Nursing Practice - General Master of Healthcare Administration - General What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7 Herzing University MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Project Management Bachelor of Science - Healthcare Management With a Dental Hygiene Emphasis AS in Medical Assisting Diploma in Medical Assisting What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Northcentral University Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 9 Saint Joseph's University MS in Health Administration During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 10 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
