#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Accredited_Online_Degree_Programs_in_Facility_and_Event_Management.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/articles/German_Translation_Certificate_Programs_Program_Overview.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Business/Business_Economics.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/Gourmet_Cooking_Diploma_Program_Summary.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Accredited Online Degree Programs in Facility and Event Management
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Business  /  Hospitality Management Business Resort Management Resort, Hotel, Motel, and Spa Management Restaurant Mgmt Travel and Tourism Management Accounting and Bookkeeping Business Economics Business Finance Business Management and Operations Business Marketing Business Support and Administrative Services Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development Human Resource Management Information System Management International Business Sales and Merchandising Specialized Sales Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Articles about Online Education  /  Business  /  Accredited Online Degree Programs in... Accredited Online Degree Programs in Facility and Event Management Find out about online facilities and event management courses and in which degree programs they're most commonly offered. Get course descriptions, program info and online requirements to make an informed decision. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information One can study facilities and event management at the undergraduate and graduate levels through online programs, which are available in both fully online and hybrid formats. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, administrative services managers, including facilities managers, had varying educational requirements depending on the type of organization for which they worked, but some positions require at least a bachelor's degree. Online Availability Hybrid and online-only programs are available Degree Levels Available Associate's, bachelor's and master's degrees Important Prerequisites Work experience and an undergraduate's degree is required for some programs In-Person Requirements On-campus classes and internships Associate's Degree in Facility and Event Management Through an online associate's degree program, students can enhance their knowledge of facility and event planning or acquire new skills in the field. Major areas of study typically include customer service management, event promotion, and food and beverage operations. These programs are intended to provide a foundation in all aspects of facility and event management, establishing a path for career entry or further education. Program Information and Requirements Applicants typically must hold a high school diploma or General Educational Development (GED) certificate. Many of these programs are fully available online; however, some may include a mix of distance education and on-campus classes. Online courses are accessed through online course management systems, such as Blackboard, which allows students to communicate with their professors and fellow students through discussion boards and chat rooms. Online learners must have access to a computer that meets the institution's hardware and software requirements. An Internet connection is required to access online learning platforms. A webcam, speakers and microphone may be needed to communicate with classmates in real-time. Course Topics Associate's degree candidates are provided with an overview of the facility and event management industry. They gain practical knowledge of the roles and responsibilities of key stakeholders in the meetings and hospitality business. Fundamentals of Meeting, Conference and Event Planning In this course, students examine the roles and responsibilities of the meeting planner. Topics covered include site selection, budgeting, transportation and on-site logistics. Event Promotion In this online course, students explore the tactics and strategies employed in promoting an event in various settings. Areas of study include an examination of marketing and public relations fundamentals, critical thinking and organizational communications. Food and Beverage Management An overview of food and beverage operations is presented in this course. Principles of purchasing and cost management, menu planning and quality control are covered. Bachelor's Degree in Facility and Event Management Online bachelor's degree programs allow students to build on their knowledge of facility and event management. Students develop management competencies and leaderships skills in preparation for careers in the hospitality and event planning industries. Program Information and Requirements Some institutions require bachelor's candidates to complete prerequisite coursework in special event coordination and management, hospitality industry finance or convention service operations. Most programs are taught completely online and include downloadable lectures and discussion board participation; however, some schools require students to take part in group assignments on-campus. Students also may be required to participate in an internship in a related setting. Course Topics Candidates explore topics in event marketing, vendor selection, and contract negotiation and logistics. They develop practical leadership skills to address issues in contemporary event management. Conventions and Large Meetings Planning Students develop an understanding of large meeting and event planning organization. Topics of discussion include communicating with key stakeholders, local service providers and authorities. Hospitality Law In this online course, students examine the legal aspects of the hospitality and event planning industry. Areas of study include the legal responsibilities of event personnel, contracts, liability, and public health and safety requirements. Human Resources Management An overview of a typical human resource department is provided in this online course. Students examine the HR department's support functions to management and the practices and methods used to recruit and maintain talent to an organization. Master's Degree in Facility and Event Management Master's degree programs in facility and event management provide working professionals and students with enhanced operational and management skills. Students use theoretical research and practical applications to gain a greater understanding of the issues involved in the planning and execution of events such as expositions, festivals and conferences. Major areas of study include personnel management, budgeting and logistics. Program Information and Requirements Applicants typically must hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. Some institutions may require students to have work experience in event planning or hospitality management. A number of programs are offered completely online; however, some may be online classes along with on-campus lectures and group assignments. Institutions may also require students to complete a thesis or a field experience to satisfy the curriculum. Course Topics Graduate students examine organizational and management issues relevant to the event management field. They learn tactics and practical strategies to effectively manage multiple events of all sizes in a variety of settings. Entertainment Management Students are provided with an overview of the planning and staging of entertainment at a large event. Topics of discussion include event marketing, talent management and audience logistics. Strategic Management This course examines and assesses various management systems and policies applied within the hospitality industry. Students evaluate practices including environmental assessment, internal organizational assessment, competitive analysis, and their relationship to the hospitality and event planning industry. Organizational Behavior This course explores individual, group and organizational dynamics within the facility and event management industry. Areas of study include communication and management strategies designed to enhance organizational effectiveness. Career Information Graduates with an associate's degree generally are equipped for entry-level career opportunities in meeting planning, corporate travel logistics and on-site operations. The median annual salary for an event planner was $44,037 as of July 2015, as reported by Payscale.com. The same website reported a median annual salary of $47,464 for meeting and convention planners as of July 2015. Bachelor's degree graduates are generally qualified for upper or senior-level positions in the facility and event management industry. In July 2015, Payscale.com reported that the median annual salary for a meeting and convention services manager was $46,907. Graduates of a master's degree program are generally qualified to pursue senior- or executive-level managerial positions in organizations with event management companies, sports facilities and entertainment complexes. As of July 2015, the median annual salary for an event director was $60,846. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Accredited Online Degree Programs in Facility and Event Management RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Sports Agent Video: Educational Requirements for a Career in Sports Management Teacher Certification Video: Earning a Teaching Certification or Teaching Credential Event Management Graduate Programs Event Management Certificate Programs Event Management Courses Online Bachelor's Degree Programs in Management Online Associate's Degree Programs in Conflict Management Trade Show Event Management Career Information and Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a trade show event manager. Get a quick view of the requirements as... Event Management Graduate Schools and Colleges: How to Choose Graduate programs in event management most commonly award graduates with a master's degree or graduate certificate in the... Special Event Management Career Info and Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an event planner. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as... Event Management Degree Program Overviews A 4-year event management bachelor's program combines elements of business management, organizational management, marketing and... Bachelor's Degree in Event Management: Program Overview Online Associate of Project Management College Degree Programs Online Retail Management Graduate Degree Programs Event Management Masters Degree Program Information Management Tips for the Working Student Time Management Tips for College Students Become an Air Force Pilot: Step-by-Step Career Guide Human Resources Assistant: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Dressmaking and Design: Online Diploma Canvasser: Job Description, Duties and Salary Careers for Operations Management MBA Graduates What Is a Business Management Major? A High School Diploma V. the GED What Can You Do With a Masters Degree in Finance? Online PHP Training and Education Programs Fireman Career Gourmet Cooking Diploma Program Summary Associate Degree in Loss Prevention Program Summary German Translation Certificate Programs Program Overview Psychiatric Technician Certification and Certificate Program Overview Performing Arts Major Bachelor of Game and Simulation Programming Degree Overview Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Kaplan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED 🌟 Graduate faster & save money with Study.com transfer credit 🌟 Program Info Online Programs Master MBA MBA - Marketing MBA - Finance Bachelor BS in Business Administration Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Investment Career Focus Area Associate AAS in Business Administration - Food & Hotel Management AAS in Business Administration AAS in Business Administration - Event Planning AAS in Business Administration - Health Club Operations Get Started with Kaplan University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. Program Info Online Programs Master MBA MBA - Media Management MBA in Entrepreneurship Bachelor BA in Service Management - Hospitality Enterprise Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Business Administration - Management Master MBA Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BS in Applied Management BS in Business Admin. Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Marketing International MBA in Marketing MS in Management Bachelor BS in Business Studies - Business Adminis Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 5Indiana Wesleyan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration Online Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Online Bachelor of Science in Management Online Associate Associate of Science in Business Online Get Started with Indiana Wesleyan University What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED 6Virginia College School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Business Administration Associate AS in Business Administration Get Started with Virginia College What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... No HS Diploma/GED HS Grad GED Some College Associate's Bachelor's Master's Doctorate 7Colorado Technical University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Management (DM) - General Concentration (Executive Format) Master Master of Business Administration Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - Management Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - Organizational Behavior Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - Business Development Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - General Associate Associate of Science in Business Administration Get Started with Colorado Technical University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate No HS Diploma/No GED 8Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Career Diploma in Certified Wedding Planner Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 9Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Business Administration - Leadership Master MS in Leadership - General Management Master of Business Administration - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 10Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR Bachelor BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration Associate AS in Business Administration Associate of Science - Business Studies Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Accounting and Bookkeeping Business Economics Business Finance Business Management and Operations Business Marketing Business Support and Administrative Services Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development Hospitality Management Human Resource Management Information System Management International Business Sales and Merchandising Specialized Sales Select your specialty subject area Resort Management Resort, Hotel, Motel, and Spa Management Restaurant Mgmt Travel and Tourism Management What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Kaplan University MBA MBA - Marketing MBA - Finance BS in Business Administration Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Investment Career Focus Area AAS in Business Administration - Food & Hotel Management AAS in Business Administration AAS in Business Administration - Event Planning AAS in Business Administration - Health Club Operations View more Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 2 Ashford University MBA MBA - Media Management MBA in Entrepreneurship BA in Service Management - Hospitality Enterprise What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management MBA Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BS in Applied Management BS in Business Admin. View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Southern New Hampshire University MBA in Marketing International MBA in Marketing MS in Management BS in Business Studies - Business Adminis What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 5 Indiana Wesleyan University Master of Business Administration Online Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Online Bachelor of Science in Management Online Associate of Science in Business Online What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED 6 Virginia College BS in Business Administration AS in Business Administration What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... No HS Diploma/GED HS Grad GED Some College Associate's Bachelor's Master's Doctorate 7 Colorado Technical University Doctor of Management (DM) - General Concentration (Executive Format) Master of Business Administration Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - Management Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - Organizational Behavior Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - Business Development Bachelor of Science in Business Administration - General Associate of Science in Business Administration Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No 8 Penn Foster Career School Career Diploma in Certified Wedding Planner What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 9 Walden University Doctor of Business Administration - Leadership MS in Leadership - General Management Master of Business Administration - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 10 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration AS in Business Administration Associate of Science - Business Studies View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
