#ThisURL#
http://study.com/program/Kaplan_University_MS_in_Psychology_-_General_Psychology.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/school/Kaplan_University.html#tab2
http://study.com/program/Kaplan_University_MS_in_Psychology_-_General_Psychology.html#tuitionStartDates
http://study.com/directory/school/Kaplan_University.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Kaplan_University.html#tab0
http://study.com/
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Kaplan+University
#Title#
Kaplan University | MS in Psychology - General Psychology
#Content#
WHY US? MORE DEGREES Kaplan University  /  MS in Psychology - General Psychology MS in Psychology - General Psychology Kaplan University's Master of Science in Psychology program with a specialization in General Psychology offers students the opportunity to learn about the history and practice of psychology. Students in this program study to gain extensive critical thinking, research, and analytical skills. Learn more about Kaplan University's Master of Science in Psychology program with a specialization in General Psychology here. Tuition & Aid Start Dates Official Program Name: Master of Science in Psychology with a specialization in General Psychology School Offering Program: Kaplan University Degree Level: Master of Science Program Description: Kaplan University's Master of Science in Psychology program with a specialization in General Psychology balances the classic traditions of the practice of psychology with current applications in the field. The program is designed to focus on the factors that drive human behavior and experience. Students have the opportunity to gain knowledge of theories and research practices in contemporary psychology. Students may also learn about the ethical, value, and sociocultural effects of the practice of psychology. Students in the General Psychology specialization have the chance to study neuropsychological perspectives, issues in psychopathology, cognitive psychology, and behavioral approaches. The skills students gain in this program could help prepare them to pursue employment in psychology or related fields.* To graduate from the program, students must complete either an original thesis or pass a comprehensive examination. Learning Format: Online Program Length/Total Credits Required: 60 or 65 credits, depending on track. Kaplan University defines an academic year as the time in which a full-time student is expected to complete 24 credit hours in 30 weeks. Financial Aid Available: Financial aid is available for those who qualify. Aid opportunities include military aid and federal, state, and private lending programs. Required Courses for a Master of Science in Psychology with a specialization in General Psychology: Degree program and course requirements are subject to change. Contact Kaplan University to confirm the most accurate information before enrolling in a program. General Psychology Specialization PS 510: Qualitative Analysis (5 credits) PS 515: Learning and Behavior (5 credits) PS 520: Neuropsychology (5 credits) PS 525: Foundations of Psychopathology (5 credits) PS 530: Cognitive Psychology (5 credits) Core Requirements PS 501: Foundations of Professional Psychology (5 credits) MM 570: Applied Statistics for Psychology (5 credits) PS 504: Advanced Research Methods (5 credits) PS 505: Testing, Measurement, and Assessment (5 credits) PS 506: Life Span Development (5 credits) Choose one of the following (5 credits): PS 502: Ethics and Standards of Professional Psychology PS 507: Ethics for Behavior Analysts Thesis Track Requirements PS 601: Master's Research and Thesis I (5 credits) PS 602: Master's Research and Thesis II (5 credits) Comprehensive Exam Track Requirements PS 600: Comprehensive Exam (5 credits) Post Graduation Opportunities Career Paths: Students in the MS in Psychology - General Psychology program could develop a variety of skills, including research methods, critical thinking skills, and ethical practices. Upon graduation, students could be able to evaluate and synthesize theories in different environments, apply theoretical models, and engage in research in psychology. Positions graduates could pursue include: Psychology generalist Social service worker Outreach worker Employee-assistance coordinator Psychology researcher Tuition, Financial Aid & Start Dates Since every student is different, there isn't a "one size fits all" for school information. Start dates and tuition often vary between selected programs, and financial aid opportunities are unique to each student's circumstances. Complete the form to the right to get the most up-to-date and accurate information based on your selected program and circumstances. Still have questions? Complete this form to request more info and get your answers and advice. Get your customized answers Simply complete the form below to get program details, tuition, start dates, financial aid, and how to choose the right program for you. What is your highest level of education completed? --- Select One --- GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) Which subject are you interested in? --- Select One --- Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education What program are you most interested in? --- Select One --- MS in Human Services MS in Psychology MS in Psychology - Addictions MS in Psychology - Applied Behavior Analysis MS in Psychology - General Psychology MS in Psychology - Industrial/Organizational Psychology Specialization MSHUS - Family and Community Services MSHUS - Organizational and Social Services Master of Public Administration Master of Public Administration - Criminal Justice Master of Public Administration - Emergency and Disaster Management Master of Public Administration - General Master of Public Administration Master of Public Administration - Governmental Management Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management BS in Early Childhood Administration BS in Human Services - Child and Family Welfare BS in Human Services - Gerontology BS in Human Services - Human Services Administration BS in Liberal Studies BS in Liberal Studies Leadership Bachelor of Science in Industrial/Organizational Psychology Bachelor of Science in Psychology in Addictions Bachelor of Science in Psychology in Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate in Human Services Human Services Psychology Undergraduate in Early Childhood Do you possess a minimum of an associate's degree from a regionally accredited institution or an institution accredited by an agency recognized by the Department of Education? --- Select One --- Yes No Are you currently or were you recently employed in the law enforcement field? --- Select One --- Yes No Do you have a Master of Science in Nursing? --- Select One --- Yes No Do you reside and possess a current license as a registered nurse without restrictions to practice in one of these states (AL, AK, IA,ID, IN, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, ME, MI, MN,MS, MT, NE,NV, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TX, VA, VT, WY )? --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska Iowa Idaho Indiana California Colorado Connecticut District of Columbia Delaware Florida Maine Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Montana Nebraska Nevada Ohio Oklahoma Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Texas Virginia Vermont Wyoming No Do you reside and possess a current license as a registered nurse without restrictions to practice in one of these states (AL, AK, IA,ID, IN, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, ME, MI, MN,MS, MT, NE,NV, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TX, VA, VT, WA, WI, WY )? --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska Iowa Idaho Indiana California Colorado Connecticut District of Columbia Delaware Florida Maine Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Montana Nebraska Nevada Ohio Oklahoma Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Texas Virginia Vermont Washington Wisconsin Wyoming No Do you reside and possess a current license as a registered nurse without restrictions to practice in one of these states (AL, AK, IA,ID, IN, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, ME, MI, MN,MS, MT, NE,NV, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TX, VA, VT, WI, WY )? --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska Iowa Idaho Indiana California Colorado Connecticut District of Columbia Delaware Florida Maine Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Montana Nebraska Nevada Ohio Oklahoma Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Texas Virginia Vermont Wisconsin Wyoming No Do you possess a current US license as a registered nurse without restriction? --- Select One --- Yes No Do you possess a current US license as a registered nurse without restriction or expect to receive your US RN license in the next 20 weeks? --- Select One --- Yes No Do you have 1000 hours of clinical practice as a RN? --- Select One --- Yes No In what year did you graduate high school? --- Select One --- 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2003-2008 1997-2002 1991-1996 1985-1990 1974-1984 1963-1973 1962 or Prior Are you or your spouse an Active Duty, Reservist, or a Veteran of the U.S. Military? --- Select One --- No Yes - Active Duty Yes - Reserve Yes - National Guard Yes - Veteran Yes - Veteran Spouse Yes - Military Spouse Yes - DoD Civilian Employee/Contractor On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) Do you have a Juris Doctorate Degree? --- Select One --- Yes No Email: Zip Code: Your Name Salutation: --- Select One --- Mr. Ms. Dr. First Name: Last Name: 94% of college-bound high school students said it was important to communicate with colleges during the search process. (Source: Noel-Levitz 2012 trend study) Contact Information Address: City: State: --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces - Africa Armed Forces - Americas Armed Forces - Canada Armed Forces - Europe Armed Forces - Middle East Armed Forces - Pacific Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. You're Almost Done Primary Phone: Don't worry, we value your privacy. Your phone number is not shared with other schools. Alternate Phone (optional): If you only have one phone number, please enter it again here. By submitting this form, I agree to be contacted by Kaplan University (KU) via email and/or telephone using an automated technology at the phone number(s) provided above regarding the educational programs I selected. I understand this consent is not required to attend KU. Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. For comprehensive consumer information click here For Kaplan University Gainful Employment program disclosure information, click here To read more about Kaplan's privacy policy click here. For comprehensive consumer information, click here Kaplan University's programs are designed to prepare graduates to pursue employment in their field of study, or in related fields. However, the University does not guarantee that graduates will be placed in any particular job or employed at all. While many of Kaplan University's degree programs are designed to prepare graduates to pursue continued graduate- or doctoral-level education, the University cannot guarantee that students will be granted admission to any graduate or doctoral programs. Kaplan University cannot guarantee employment or career advancement. Although certain programs at Kaplan University are designed to prepare students to take various certification or licensing exams, the University cannot guarantee the student will be eligible to sit for or pass those exams. In some cases, field experience, additional coursework, and/or background checks may be necessary to be eligible to take or to successfully pass the exams. While many of Kaplan University's degree programs are designed to prepare graduates to pursue continued graduate- or doctorate-level education, the University cannot guarantee that students will be granted admission to any graduate or doctoral programs. Scholarships available only to first-time enrollees in undergraduate degree programs. Savings based on length of study, which varies by program and amount of transfer credits, if any, awarded. Scholarship applied at the end of each term, up to a maximum of 17 terms for bachelor's degree programs and 9 terms for associate’s degrees. Maximum amount is $8,500, which requires receiving the maximum scholarship per term ($500) for 17 terms. Students studying toward associate’s degrees or who receive transfer credit typically study for significantly fewer than 17 terms and do not qualify for maximum savings. Eligibility rules and other terms apply; consult an Admissions Advisor. Scholarships subject to change and/or discontinuation. Cannot be combined with other Kaplan University scholarships, discounts, or grants. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © copyright 2003-2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
