#ThisURL#
http://study.com/videos/Oklahoma_State_University_Video_Review.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/oklahoma_city_culinary_school.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/videos/Oklahoma_State_University_Video_Review.html#Oklahoma
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/program/Colorado_Technical_University_BS_in_Psychology_-_Organizational_Behavior.html
http://study.com/program/Kaplan_University_MS_in_Psychology_-_General_Psychology.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Oklahoma State University Video Review
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Video Library  /  Top Oklahoma Universities - Video Reviews  /  Oklahoma State University Video Review Oklahoma State University Video Review Related Videos Electrical Engineering Professions Video: Becoming an Electrical Engineer Civil Engineering Professions Video: Becoming a Civil Engineer Automotive Engineering Video: Becoming an Automotive Engineer Mechanical Engineering Career Video: Becoming a Mechanical Engineer Oklahoma State University Video Review Transcript Oklahoma State University is located 65 miles northeast of Oklahoma City in Stillwater, Oklahoma. The most popular undergraduate majors at the university are business, engineering, agriculture sciences, education and family sciences. Oklahoma State University at Stillwater is the flagship school of the Oklahoma State University System, a network of six public institutions located throughout Oklahoma. Oklahoma State is ranked in the third tier of national institutions in the America's Best Colleges report. Many campus projects have transformed Oklahoma State in recent years. New and renovated academic buildings, residence halls and athletic centers are all among the improvements that have been made. Ample recreational activities are also available with a high percentage of students participating in campus organizations. School spirit is very important at Oklahoma State, as demonstrated by strong support of the Cowboys, the school's athletic teams that compete in the Big 12 Conference. Surrounding Stillwater, a city of more than 40,000 in the midst of rapid growth, offers many additional opportunities for fun. Oklahoma State University offers more than 200 undergraduate and graduate degree programs through 10 colleges. Popular majors among undergraduates include business, engineering, agriculture sciences, education and family sciences. The university was founded as a mechanical and agricultural school and maintains its tradition of strength in these areas, while also providing comprehensive studies. Oklahoma State is home to nearly 19,000 undergraduate students. One of the 'more selective' schools in the nation, the university has a freshman acceptance rate of 87 percent. Incoming students have a grade point average of 3.5 and typically score in the 1000 to 1250 range on the SAT and between 22 and 27 on the ACT. -statistics compiled by U.S. News and World Report in its annual list 'America's Best Colleges.' Oklahoma State University Video Review Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Should I Go to Business School? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Debating whether or not you should go to business school? The self-assessment quiz below will help you determine whether you should take... Part-Time PhD Programs in Business: How Do They Work? A part-time Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Business program allows a student to take their Ph.D. on a part-time basis while working... Best Engineering Majors for Achieving the Highest Starting Salary As of 2015, students who completed bachelor's programs in a variety of engineering disciplines were among the highest paid entry-level... Careers with a Biology Degree and MBA: Combining Biology and Business Several universities around the country offer dual biology and business graduate degrees. Courses in genetics, molecular and cellular... List of Online Business Workshops and Seminars Several national and worldwide organizations have been created to help businesses succeed, and they make a wealth of free or inexpensive... Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (OK) Colleges Oklahoma City Design School Broadcasting Schools in Oklahoma City Oklahoma City Physical Therapy Universities Healthcare Degree in Oklahoma City Oklahoma City Culinary School Culinary Arts Schools in Oklahoma City Rankings: Best Business Schools Online Bachelor of Business to Become an Insurance Professional Top Business School - Phoenix, AZ Top Business PhD Programs: School List Top Schools for Engineering Medical Doctor: Job Description & Career Info Medical doctors require significant formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and requirements to see if this is the right... Become a Homicide Detective: Step-by-Step Career Guide Research the requirements to become a homicide detective. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the step-by-step process to... Types of Brain Doctors: Career Information by Specialization Online PhD Programs in Sociology: Degree Overview Chartered Accountant Job, Salary and Career Information Zoologist Career Information: Becoming a Zoologist Online Geology Degree Program Overviews Phd Programs Florida Florida is home to about 90 schools that offer Ph.D. programs. See rankings of the largest and most affordable schools in Florida to... Production Manager Job Description and Information About Starting a Career in Production Management Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a production manager. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details... Web Content Coordinator Job Description Duties and Salary Social Media in the College Classroom Professor Corinne Weisgerber Talks About the Educational Value of New Media Mount Laurel, New Jersey (NJ) Colleges Lancaster, Pennsylvania Education and City Information Beckley, West Virginia (WV) Colleges Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 2 Walden University DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - General-Advanced PhD in Criminal Justice - General Doctor of Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - Self-Designed Ph.D. in Education - Curriculum, Instruction and Assesment Master of Business Administration - Leadership MS in Psychology - Applied Psychology MS in Management - Communication M.S. in Industrial and Organizational Psychology - General Practice MS in Psychology - General M.S. in Communication Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Assessment, Evaluation, and Accountability Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Education Leadership and Administration (Prinicpal Preperation) Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Educational Administration and Leadership (Non-Licensure) Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Special Education Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Early Childhood Education Ed.S. in Educational Leadership & Administration (Principal Preparation) - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 3 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 4 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MBA in Technology Management MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Project Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 6 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 7 University of the Southwest MBA - Self-Designed MSEd in School Counseling MBA in Accounting MBA - Law Enforcement & Corrections MBA - HR Management MBA - Public Administration View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School 8 American InterContinental University MBA in Management MBA in Operations Management M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Business Administration - Accounting Master of Information Technology - Information Assurance and Security MBA in Project Management Bachelor of Business Administration - Generalist Bachelor or Science - Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement BBA in Marketing BBA in Accounting Bachelor of Business Administration - Finance Bachelor of Technology: Information Assurance and Security Associate of Arts in Business Administration Associate of Science in Criminal Justice View more Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No 9 Kaplan University Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path, Executive Leader Specialization Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path MS in Criminal Justice - Law Master of Science in Legal Studies MS in Psychology MBA MS in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Science in Psychology, Industrial/Organizational Psychology BS in Liberal Studies BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Investment Career Focus Area BS in Liberal Studies Leadership BS in Nutrition Science AAS in Business Administration - Business AAS in Legal Support and Services AAS in Business Administration AAS in Business Admin-Office Management AAS in Criminal Justice AAS in Accounting Certificate in Human Services Pathway to Paralegal Postbaccalaureate Certificate Family Nurse Practitioner Graduate Certificate Executive Leader Graduate Certificate Adult Gerontology Practitioner Certificate Nurse Educator Graduate Certificate View more Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 10 Colorado Technical University Doctor of Management Criminal Justice Doctor of Computer Science Doctor of Computer Science in Information Assurance Doctor of Management in Graduate Level Instructional Practices Doctor of Computer Science in Enterprise Information Systems Doctor of Management in Organizational Development and Change Master of Science in Computer Science MS in Computer Science - Database Systems Master of Business Administration MBA in Entrepreneurship Master of Science in Computer Science - Computer Systems Security MS - Information Technology BS in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice BS in Psychology - Organizational Behavior BS in Psychology - Consumer Behavior BS in Nursing (RN to BSN completion) Bachelor of Science in Information Technology - Web Development Associate of Science in Business Administration AS in Health Administration Services View more Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No Show more schools… Oklahoma Colleges Oklahoma Cities Nearby States Edmond, OK Schools Norman, OK Schools Oklahoma City, OK Schools Okmulgee, OK Schools Stillwater, OK Schools Tulsa, OK Schools Arkansas Colleges Colorado Colleges Kansas Colleges Louisiana Colleges Missouri Colleges New Mexico Colleges Texas Colleges Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
