#ThisURL#
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com/
#SubURL#
https://twitter.com/hashtag/SMMsociety?src=hash
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com/access/
https://twitter.com/CarlosGil83
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com/#accordion_stacked_pills10
https://twitter.com/hashtag/spreadsheetjunkie?src=hash
https://twitter.com/hashtag/SMMSociety
http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/terms-of-use/
https://twitter.com/DenaChilds/status/598239088483774464
https://twitter.com/SMExaminer
https://twitter.com/Snapchat
https://twitter.com/Mike_Stelzner
https://twitter.com/nsalad/status/692097250718306304
http://www.on2url.com/app/adtrack.asp?MerchantID=75795&AdID=759128
https://twitter.com/AndreaVahl
mailto:society@socialmediaexaminer.com
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com/#
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com/#accordion_stacked_pills00
http://www.1shoppingcart.com/SecureCart/SecureCart.aspx?mid=AF649C23-D241-4AF4-A56C-C12C67D6BA10&pid=0808aa6d32c64ca082d9d147f5950d4c&bn=1
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com/question/
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com
https://www.facebook.com/smexaminer
http://society.socialmediaexaminer.com/members/denachilds/
http://www.1shoppingcart.com/SecureCart/SecureCart.aspx?mid=AF649C23-D241-4AF4-A56C-C12C67D6BA10&pid=27e0aa04101948d3b48e58062f8821e6&bn=1
#Title#
Social Media Marketing Society - Social Media Marketing Society
#Content#
Keeping You On The Leading Edge Of Social Media Home Login Ask A Question World Search for: Discover the latest social media techniques to quickly grow your business × Social Media Marketing Society NOW Open Special offer ends May 13th, 2016… Want an easier way to discover new social media marketing tactics that deliver real results? Wish you had more time to act on the latest social media techniques? Can you relate to the video below? Join fellow marketers on a quest to eliminate trial and error and focus on what really works. The Social Media Marketing Society will help you discover how to implement the newest social media marketing tactics. No more guessing. We show you how, step-by-step. The result: You become a hero as you quickly apply new ideas that keep your business on the leading edge, ahead of your competitors. The team at Social Media Examiner will guide you. Will you join us? What is the Social Media Marketing Society? The Social Media Marketing Society is an exclusive membership community brought to you by Social Media Examiner. The purpose of the Society is to help marketers and business owners discover new ideas, avoid trial and error, implement the newest social tactics and find what works best with social media marketing. Our mission is to be your competitive advantage. Here’s what makes the Society unique: You’ll receive live, original trainings every month, without leaving your office chair You’ll discover dozens of training sessions that you can dig into immediately You’ll have access to experts who operate on the leading edge You’ll join a community of your peers—people who share the same interests as you We’ll provide you three unique training opportunities, every month. There’s no need to travel because it all happens online. Your training will equip you with the latest techniques in Facebook organic marketing, Facebook paid marketing, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, Snapchat, YouTube, video marketing, content marketing, visual marketing, live video, marketing tools, analysis, social psychology and social strategy. Simply said, when you join the Social Media Marketing Society, you’ll be empowered to rapidly implement the newest and best social media marketing tactics. No more guessing what works. No need to spend time experimenting. No more waiting for that next conference. Simply keep discovering great actionable tactics you can immediately put to work. Here’s why you should join us: #1: Discover the best and newest ways to deploy and track social tactics: You’ll be shown, step-by-step, how to implement effective social media marketing techniques—all from the comfort of your home or office. #2: Reduce your trial and error: Why experiment with your social media marketing when you can fast-track your time to success? With ongoing world-class training you’ll be able to focus on tactics that work, giving your business a competitive edge. #3: Speed your results: The training you’ll receive focuses heavily on tactical implementation. We’ll show you precisely how to employ the latest techniques. No more digging around and guessing what to do. You can focus on action. #4: Connect with people just like you: Finally, you’ll be able to tap into a community of marketers just like you, who face the same challenges you do. You’ll network with your fellow peers in a supportive environment where you can share stories, gather ideas and build priceless relationships. #5: Trust in our proven track record: Social Media Examiner has a long history of delivering exceptional online training. 96% of the people who attend our annual events say they’ll participate again and recommend it to a friend. You can expect no less from the Social Media Marketing Society, where we provide content that’s more in-depth than anything we present anywhere else. Here’s why others joined the Society: “I decided to join the Society because I really trust the content from Social Media Examiner. I don’t know about everyone else, but I’ve spent money on professional development in the digital marketing space and have been really disappointed with the learning outcomes. Social Media Examiner has great, honest advice and I can’t wait to get access to the next level of information.” -Allie Kosela “I joined because I must be current and relevant in social media – and I believe strongly that this Society – and those collaborating here – will be at the forefront at this.” – Rich Obertots I’ve been so impressed with the content of #SMMSociety so far. It’s the deep dive that I was wanting at #SMMW15. Really glad I joined. — Dena Childs (@DenaChilds) May 12, 2015 “I’m here because I’m hoping it will help me do my job better. I need to stay updated with recent social media platform changes, learn what works and doesn’t and I’m hoping to get all of that knowledge right here.” – Shari Sultana Learning so much about @Snapchat via @CarlosGil83‘s #SMMsociety webinar. Thanks! — Kathy Rose (@10kro) January 14, 2016 “I am very excited about the step-by-step instructions. Often I find myself understanding the concepts, but not understanding how to implement the steps. I am looking forward to making new connections and learning a lot! I love your content!” -Susan Unger Currently drooling at the richness of data in Facebook video insights being shared by @AndreaVahl #SMMsociety #spreadsheetjunkie — Steve Revill (@steve_revill) May 12, 2015 “I have followed Michael for years and always been impressed with the value of his content. I send all my interns and clients to sign up for Social Media Examiner. It was a no brainer to join the Social Media Marketing Society.” -Robin Eschler Best investment so far for my career – #SMMSociety ! Thank you @Mike_Stelzner &@SMExaminer — Pat**Mills (@obgg1997) June 12, 2015 “I want to say thanks for setting up this community. I’ve only joined a few communities in many years of doing this, but already this is the best of them. It’s smartly created, the people are great, the overall offering is of tremendous value. Very glad I joined.” -Rob Swick Listening to #smmsociety webinar on FB Live for Biz Strategy. Already have ideas for clients – so glad I’m listening to this. — nsalad (@nsalad) January 26, 2016 ▼ Click to view more testimonials ▼ − “My experience with all things Social Media Examiner has been inspiring, and I couldn’t think of a better group to be part of as we begin this journey together.” – Tyler Sowinski “I’m a huge fan of what Social Media Examiner has done and the kind of content you folks provide.” – Brian Mulawka “I have been following Social Media Examiner for many years and have come to trust the high quality information that cuts through all the clutter about social media and provides me with some nuggets that I can put to use to help my clients.” – Diane Carson “I joined the Society because I find the information that Social Media Examiner provides so helpful–it’s my go to when I need to figure something out, and I refer others here all the time when they have questions.” – Shanna Reimer “I think it is essential to reach out to others online who are outside your professional circle, share content, and create engaging conversations.” – Carol Hartmann “I joined to learn and earn lasting friendships with creative people who care about building relationships to better business.” – Tyler Sowinski “I joined, not so much because of the training but for the forums and connection opportunities.” – Tim Lewis “I am looking forward to interacting with others from around the world and to understanding new concepts and techniques. At the same time looking forward to the training which is exactly what is needed in a busy digital world!” – David Bolton “I’ve been in the marketing field for over 12 years. However, in all of those years, it has never had the rate of change that it has now. I’m excited to keep expanding my social media marketing knowledge as well as keep up with the ever-changing platforms!” – Ashlee Colliver “With the digital marketing sphere being in a constant state of evolution, I’m expecting the learnings from the Society will help manage my marketing by getting smarter, not by working harder.” – Tiki Papaioannou “The rate of progress is insane, and I need help to keep up.” – Jo MacArthur “Time is at a premium. Any help I can get in filtering out the time-wasters and turning my focus to tactics and strategies that work is welcome. I look forward to learning and improving what we are doing in many areas.” – Erika Schanzenbach “I’m looking for info that weeds out stuff of little or no value. There’s so much content on social media all over the internet that is just really poor quality that I wanted to be a part of a site where I know I can go to get nothing but quality content that won’t waste my time.” – Brian Mulawka “Joining the Social Media Marketing Society is a time-efficient solution offering practical, actionable training from a trusted source.” – Stephanie Audry “Keeping up on everything is demanding, especially when social media is just one element of my business. This will be a great resource to keep me up-to-date and informed where other platforms have failed to deliver on that promise.” – David Baer “We have limited resources, so we’re looking for something that will offer best bang for our buck.” – Lisa Ogle “Having one central place to go to for training and support and a great community that has knowledge to share was a no-brainer for me.” – Lauren Ridgeway “How could I not join? Between my day job, my family, and trying to make a career change/start a business, my time is extremely limited. The straight to the point, ‘this is exactly how you do X, Y, or Z’ trainings are incredibly valuable.” – Krista Wiltbank What makes this different? There are plenty of ways you can discover great social media tactics, such as listening to podcasts, reading articles and attending conferences. And Social Media Examiner provides all of those options to you. But here’s what makes the Society unique: Live original training, every month: You’ll always be discovering new ideas and unlocking the latent explorer inside of you. Built-in networking: Need a professional sounding board? Connect with your peers through Society forums and live Society Hangouts (organized video conferences). Highly tactical implementation: No need to comb through countless articles or listen to hours of podcasts. Quality experience: The quality you’ve come to expect from Social Media Examiner will shine through with the Society. We’ll bring you true experts and always seek to improve your experience. No costly travel required: Eliminate airfare, hotel, conference registration fees and the need to take time off of work. Highly economical: We know you’ll agree that joining the Society is an exceptional value. How does the Society work? Studies show that people who further their professional development are more successful, reach their business goals faster, enjoy their work more, build better relationships and earn more money! The Social Media Marketing Society is a professional development resource that will help you get ahead. Take a look at what’s inside the Society with this “behind the scenes tour.” Here’s how the Society will help you: Training Sessions You’ll receive three new and original training sessions every month. At least two will be live. You’ll participate in highly tactical training, where experts show you—step-by-step—the latest social media marketing techniques. During the live training sessions, you’ll be able to ask your questions live to our trainers. With every training we provide streaming video recordings, PDFs of slides and transcripts, along with downloadable audio files so you can listen on-the-go. You’ll have access to the archives of all training sessions as long as you maintain your Society membership. Networking and Discussions When you join the Society, you’ll gain exclusive access to our private community of social media marketers—people just like you who face the same challenges you do. Got questions? Post them in the Society forums. You’re sure to get some great advice from fellow marketers and the Social Media Examiner team. Chat about marketing struggles in our forums. Our discussion forums focus on Facebook marketing, Twitter marketing, LinkedIn marketing, video and visual marketing, tools and resources, and breaking social media news. Want to meet others in your industry or interest area? Experience our live video hangouts and connect with other Society members. We’ve built networking right into your Society membership. So wherever you are in the world, chances are you’ll find people to connect with in the Society. Designed to fit your busy schedule The Social Media Marketing Society was designed by marketers for marketers. That means it’s built to accommodate your busy schedule. You can pick and choose what you want to participate in live and what you want to watch later. Every Society training session is recorded and made available within hours to all members. The Society archives house dozens of training modules on topics including Facebook organic marketing, Facebook paid marketing, LinkedIn, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, Snapchat, YouTube, video marketing, content marketing, visual marketing, live video, marketing tools, analysis, social psychology and strategy. You can access the recorded sessions any day, anytime and as many times as you want. The Society is fully optimized for mobile devices so you can participate on-the-go. Sample Training ▼ Click to view a training example ▼ − Wondering what an actual training looks like for Society members? Want to watch this in HD full screen mode? Here’s how: Hover over the playing video and click the four arrows button. To see this in high definition, be sure the HD button is clicked on. How to Join Traditional professional development opportunities—featuring world-class training and providing a chance to network with your peers—can cost thousands of dollars to attend. And that doesn’t include the added costs of travel, meals, hotel accommodations, rental cars and lost work time. Not so with the Social Media Marketing Society. With the Social Media Marketing Society, you have no costs for events, travel, meals, hotels, cars or lost time! Why? Because it’s all online. The only expense is your membership, but don’t let that scare you away! Some member organizations can be very costly, but we wanted to make the Society very affordable to you. We wanted to make this high quality professional development accessible to anyone who strives to become a better marketer. PRICE: The membership fee to join the Social Media Marketing Society is $697 annually (that’s about $19 per training) or $70 per month. LIMITED-TIME SALE (BEST OFFER): ONLY $397 ANNUALLY! (SAVE $300 off the regular price). That’s about $11 per training or $33.08 per month. This includes a guaranteed rate lock (membership fees will never increase for you). Your membership will be renewed automatically each year. This offer is good until May 13, 2016. CLICK HERE NOW TO SECURE YOUR ANNUAL MEMBERSHIP MONTHLY PAYMENT SALE: ONLY $45 each month! That’s $15 per training session and includes a guaranteed rate lock (membership fees will never increase for you) when you pay month-to-month. This offer is good until May 13, 2016. CLICK HERE NOW TO REGISTER VIA OUR MONTHLY PLAN We accept Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, PayPal, and Diner’s Club. Your account will be automatically billed every 30 days for the monthly plan and every 365 days for the annual plan. NOTE: PayPal is NOT supported on the annual plan. Terms and conditions: Your membership fee will not increase as long as you maintain your payments. Monthly Plan Cancellation policy: You are never locked into any long term contracts. If you decide the Social Media Marketing Society is not for you, simply email here and request a cancellation. We’ll immediately stop your billing and cancel your access. No hassles. No hard feelings. You may cancel at any time. Annual Plan Sample-It Guarantee: If you purchase the annual plan, you can try the first seven days and still cancel for a full refund if you determine the Society is not for you. Take a few days to dive into the site, watch a training or two, and explore the discussion forums. If the Society does not meet your needs, notify us here within seven days of your registration, and your credit card will be refunded and we’ll cancel your access. Common questions answered What will I receive every month as a member? When you join the Social Media Marketing Society you’ll have access to three original training sessions every month. You’ll also have access to the recordings of ALL prior training sessions as long as you keep your membership active. You’ll gain exclusive access to our forums and live hangouts where you can connect with peers and get your social media marketing questions answered. Society members who attend Social Media Marketing World (our annual conference in San Diego) will enjoy special conference benefits. How do I watch the live sessions? You simply log in to our member website and follow the instructions we provide. You’ll be able to view the live training sessions on a computer or mobile device. I can’t attend all the live training sessions. Will I get a recording? Yes. For each training session we’ll provide a recording you can watch online via your computer, tablet or mobile device, so you won’t miss a thing. If you have other commitments (like a day job) or if a session occurs at an inconvenient time, no need to worry. Even if you attend a live training session, you’ll still get the recording. You’ll have access to recordings for as long as you maintain your membership. How do I watch the playbacks of training sessions? You simply log in to our membership website. There you’ll find streaming videos you can play back from a desktop or mobile device. Downloadable transcripts, slide decks and audio files are also provided. Will there be transcripts? Yes. We’ll provide transcripts of each session as Adobe PDF files. This will allow you to study and scan the content of each training. How can I ask questions? Two ways. First, during the live training sessions, you’ll be able to submit questions during the Q&A portion of each session. If you are selected we will bring you on live to ask your question. Second, you can post questions in our private forums to get answers from your peers and the experts. Where is the event located? At your home or office. Since this is online training, there is no physical venue and no travel expenses. And you’ll get the recordings, so if you miss a live session, no worries. How long are the training sessions? Each of the sessions is 60 to 90 minutes in duration. What if I still have questions? Send an email here and we’ll get back to you right away. The Social Media Marketing Society is a membership community for marketers. By joining, you'll receive original training three times every month, right from your office chair. You'll also connect with your peers via live Society Hangouts (online video conferencing) and in our exclusive discussion forums. You'll want to watch the video to the left. Help us spread the word: Tweet Social Media Examiner #SMMSociety Tweets Copyright © 2016 Social Media Examiner®. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use.
