#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 1960-1969 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 1960-1969 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 The Good, the Bad and the Ugly 1967 Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo For three men the Civil War wasn’t hell. It was practice. Director: Sergio Leone. Cast: Eli Wallach, Clint Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef, Aldo Giuffrè, Luigi Pistilli, Rada Rassimov, John Bartha, Livio Lorenzon, Antonio Casale, Angelo Novi, José Terrón. Overview: A bounty hunting scam joins two men in an uneasy alliance against a third in a race to find a fortune in gold buried in a remote cemetery.This is the third Italian-Western film of a trilogy from director Sergio Leone who gives Western films a new (bloody) color. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Western. Countries: Italy, Spain, Germany. Runtime: 2h 41m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 Once Upon a Time in the West 1969 C'era una volta il West There were three men in her life. One to take her... one to love her... and one to kill her. Director: Sergio Leone. Cast: Henry Fonda, Claudia Cardinale, Jason Robards, Charles Bronson, Gabriele Ferzetti, Paolo Stoppa, Woody Strode, Jack Elam, Keenan Wynn, Frank Wolff, Lionel Stander. Overview: Once Upon a Time in the West is the first and most ambitious film from a trilogy by Sergio Leones. This classic western masterpiece is an epic film about a widow who’s land and life are in danger as the railroad is getting closer and closer to taking them over. A mysterious harmonica player joins forces with Desperado to protect the woman and her land. Brilliant performances and a daring cinematic Genres: Action, Foreign, Western. Countries: Italy, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 45m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 Psycho 1960 Check in. Relax. Take a shower. Directors: Alfred Hitchcock, Hilton A. Green. Cast: Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, John Gavin, Janet Leigh, Martin Balsam, John McIntire, Simon Oakland, Frank Albertson, Patricia Hitchcock, Vaughn Taylor, Lurene Tuttle, Mort Mills, John Anderson. Overview: Psycho is one of the most famous masterpieces from Hitchcock and for it’s time was unparalleled in it’s horror effect. A chilling score sets the pace for an introverted killer and a mystery thriller case of multiple dimensions. The credits for the film directed by Saul Bass were revolutionary for their time. Genres: Drama, Horror, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb 1964 Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Peter Sellers, George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden, Slim Pickens, Keenan Wynn, Peter Bull, Jack Creley, Tracy Reed. Overview: An insane general starts a process to nuclear holocaust that a war room of politicians and generals frantically try to stop. A classic black and white war satire from director Stanley Kubrick starring Peter Sellers. Genres: Comedy, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 34m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 Lawrence of Arabia 1962 Director: David Lean. Cast: Peter O'Toole, Alec Guinness, Anthony Quinn, Jack Hawkins, Omar Sharif, Claude Rains, Anthony Quayle, José Ferrer, Arthur Kennedy, Donald Wolfit, Zia Mohyeddin, I.S. Johar, Gamil Ratib, Michel Ray, John Dimech. Overview: Lawrence of Arabia is the classic film from David Lean starring Peter O’Toole and based on the autobiography from Thomas Edward Lawrence who during the first World War was on assignment by the British Empire in Arabia. The film would become a cult classic and is known today as a masterpiece. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Foreign, History. Runtime: 3h 36m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 To Kill a Mockingbird 1962 If you have read the novel, you will relive every treasured moment. . .If not, a deeply moving experience awaits you! Director: Robert Mulligan. Cast: Gregory Peck, Mary Badham, Phillip Alford, Robert Duvall, John Megna, Frank Overton, Rosemary Murphy, Ruth White, Brock Peters, Estelle Evans, Alice Ghostley, Paul Fix, Collin Wilcox Paxton, James Anderson, William Windom. Overview: To Kill A Mockingbird is the film adaptation of the classic book by Harper Lee. The film tells the story of a child in a small American town in the 1930’s where color prejudice, racial hatred, and taking the law into your own hands were everyday events. Gregory Peck would receive an Oscar for his excellent portrayal of a single father named Atticus Finch. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 9m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 The Apartment 1960 Movie-wise, there has never been anything like it - laugh-wise, love-wise, or otherwise-wise Director: Billy Wilder. Cast: Jack Lemmon, Shirley MacLaine, Fred MacMurray, Ray Walston, Jack Kruschen, Naomi Stevens, Hope Holiday, Edie Adams, Joan Shawlee, Johnny Seven. Overview: The Apartment came out shortly after the success of ‘Some Like it Hot’ from director Billy Wilder and thus making it the most successful films of the year. Full of trivialities this comedy is a harsh critic of coporate world and the American way of life. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 5m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 2001: A Space Odyssey 1968 The Ultimate Trip. Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Keir Dullea, Douglas Rain, Gary Lockwood, William Sylvester, Daniel Richter, Leonard Rossiter, Margaret Tyzack, Robert Beatty, Sean Sullivan. Overview: The highly respected and often cited milestone in Science Fiction cinema. Director Stanley Kubrick takes us into the future, into outer space and aboard a spacecraft that’s controlled by a seemingly trustworthy computer named HAL. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 Seppuku 1962 Director: Masaki Kobayashi. Cast: Tatsuya Nakadai, Rentarô Mikuni, Shima Iwashita, Akira Ishihama. Overview: Peace in 17th-century Japan causes the Shogunate's breakup of warrior clans, throwing thousands of samurai out of work and into poverty. An honorable end to such fate under the samurai code is ritual suicide, or seppuku (self-inflicted disembowelment). An elder warrior seeks admittance to the house of a feudal lord to commit the act. There, he learns of the fate of his son-in-law. Genre: Eastern. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 15m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 Yojimbo 1961 Yôjinbô Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Toshirô Mifune, Tatsuya Nakadai, Yôko Tsukasa, Isuzu Yamada, Daisuke Katô, Takashi Shimura, Seizaburô Kawazu, Hiroshi Tachikawa, Yôsuke Natsuki, Eijirô Tôno, Kamatari Fujiwara, Ikio Sawamura, Atsushi Watanabe, Susumu Fujita, Kyû Sazanka. Overview: The incomparable Toshiro Mifune stars in Akira Kurosawa’s visually stunning and darkly comic Yojimbo. To rid a terror-stricken village of corruption, wily masterless samurai Sanjuro turns a range war between two evil clans to his own advantage. Remade twice, by Sergio Leone and Walter Hill, this exhilarating genre-twister remains one of the most influential and entertaining films of all time. Genres: Action, Drama, Foreign, Indie, Thriller. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 50m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 The Great Escape 1963 Put a fence in front of these men...and they'll climb it... Director: John Sturges. Cast: Steve McQueen, James Garner, Richard Attenborough, James Donald, Charles Bronson, Donald Pleasence, James Coburn, Hannes Messemer, David McCallum, Gordon Jackson, John Leyton, Angus Lennie, Nigel Stock, Robert Graf, Jud Taylor. Overview: The Nazis, exasperated at the number of escapes from their prison camps by a relatively small number of Allied prisoners, relocates them to a high-security "escape-proof" camp to sit out the remainder of the war. Undaunted, the prisoners plan one of the most ambitious escape attempts of World War II. Based on a true story. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, History, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 52m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 Le Trou 1960 Director: Jacques Becker. Cast: Michel Constantin, Jean Keraudy, Philippe Leroy, Raymond Meunier, Marc Michel, Jean-Paul Coquelin, André Bervil, Eddy Rasimi. Overview: Marc Michel plays an imprisoned man awaiting trial for the attempted murder of his wife. He is transferred to another cell, where his fellow prisoners are planning a jailbreak. He decides to go along with the elaborate plan, and the cellmates attempt to tunnel their way to freedom. Le Trou represents the last film of director Jacques Becker, who died shortly after its completion. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Thriller, Foreign. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 2h 12m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 Woman in the Dunes 1964 Suna no onna Haunting. Erotic. Unforgettable. Director: Hiroshi Teshigahara. Cast: Eiji Okada, Kyoko Kishida, Ginzô Sekiguchi, Kôji Mitsui, Sen Yano, Hiroko Itô. Overview: Jumpei Niki, a Tokyo based entomologist and educator, is in a poor seaside village collecting specimens of sand insects. As it is late in the day and as he has missed the last bus back to the city, some of the local villagers suggest that he spend the night there, they offering to find him a place to stay. Genres: Drama, Thriller. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 27m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 For a Few Dollars More 1965 Per qualche dollaro in più Director: Sergio Leone. Cast: Clint Eastwood, Lee Van Cleef, Gian Maria Volonté, Klaus Kinski, Mara Krupp, Luigi Pistilli, Joseph Egger, Panos Papadopulos, Benito Stefanelli. Overview: For a Few Dollars More is a Spaghetti Western from Italian director Sergio Leone from 1965 and the sequel to A Fistful of Dollars. Genres: Action, Western. Countries: Italy, Spain, Germany. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 Judgment at Nuremberg 1961 Director: Stanley Kramer. Cast: Spencer Tracy, Burt Lancaster, Richard Widmark, Marlene Dietrich, Maximilian Schell, Judy Garland, Montgomery Clift, Edward Binns, Werner Klemperer, Torben Meyer, Martin Brandt, William Shatner, Kenneth MacKenna, Alan Baxter, John Wengraf. Overview: Judgment at Nuremberg is an American film based on the trials of 4 Nazi judges in Nuremberg Germany in 1948 by an American court. Genres: Drama, History. Countries: Germany, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 6m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Rocco and His Brothers 1960 Rocco e i suoi fratelli Director: Luchino Visconti. Cast: Alain Delon, Annie Girardot, Renato Salvatori, Katina Paxinou, Spiros Focás, Rocco Vidolazzi, Claudia Cardinale. Overview: Set in Milan, it tells the story of an immigrant family from the South and its disintegration in the society of the industrial North. Genres: Crime, Drama, Foreign, Indie, Thriller. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 2h 57m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 The Battle of Algiers 1967 La battaglia di Algeri Director: Gillo Pontecorvo. Cast: Brahim Hadjadj, Jean Martin. Overview: The French Colonel...who was forced even to torture! One of the many women...who stopped at nothing to win! The Algerian Street Boy...who became a rebel hero! Genres: Drama, Foreign, War. Countries: Algeria, Italy. Runtime: 2h 1m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 Cool Hand Luke 1967 The man...and the motion picture that simply do not conform Director: Stuart Rosenberg. Cast: Paul Newman, George Kennedy, Luke Askew, Morgan Woodward, Harry Dean Stanton, Dennis Hopper, Lou Antonio, Robert Drivas, Strother Martin, Jo Van Fleet, Clifton James, Marc Cavell, Richard Davalos, Robert Donner, J.D. Cannon. Overview: Cool Hand Luke is a Drama from director Stuart Rosenberg starring Paul Newman. The film tells the story of a nonconformist rebel named Luke who while in jail tries to break out. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 6m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 High and Low 1963 Tengoku to Jigoku Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Toshirō Mifune, Tatsuya Nakadai, Kyôko Kagawa, Tatsuya Mihashi, Isao Kimura, Kenjiro Ishiyama, Takeshi Katô, Takashi Shimura, Jun Tazaki, Nobuo Nakamura, Yûnosuke Itô, Tsutomu Yamazaki, Minoru Chiaki, Eijirô Tôno, Masao Shimizu. Overview: Toshiro Mifune is unforgettable as Kingo Gondo, a wealthy industrialist whose family becomes the target of a cold-blooded kidnapper in Akira Kurosawa's highly influential High and Low. Adapting Ed McBain's detective Novel King's Ransom, Kurosawa moves effortlessly from compelling race-against-time thriller to exacting social commentary, creating a penetrating portrait of contempory Japanese society. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 23m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 Andrei Rublev 1966 Andrey Rublyov Director: Andrei Tarkovsky. Cast: Anatoli Solonitsyn, Ivan Lapikov, Nikolai Grinko, Nikolai Sergeyev, Irma Raush, Nikolay Burlyaev, Yuriy Nazarov, Nikolai Grabbe, Mikhail Kononov, Bolot Bejshenaliyev, Rolan Bykov, Yuri Nikulin. Overview: After four years of production the film by Russian director Andrei Tarkovsky would be banned soon after it’s release leading it to be shown only at foreign film festivals. The film is about a Russian icon painter Andrej Rubljow and the relationship of artists and their unique power. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History, Indie. Country: Russian Federation. Runtime: 3h 25m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 The Manchurian Candidate 1962 Director: John Frankenheimer. Cast: Frank Sinatra, Janet Leigh, Laurence Harvey, Angela Lansbury, Henry Silva, James Gregory, Leslie Parrish, John McGiver, Khigh Dhiegh, James Edwards, Douglas Henderson, Albert Paulsen. Overview: The Manchurian Candidate is a political thriller from American director John Frankenheimer. An American soldier is brainwashed into being a killer for the communist Russians during the Korean War. Genres: Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 6m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Divorce Italian Style 1961 Divorzio all'italiana Director: Pietro Germi. Cast: Marcello Mastroianni, Daniela Rocca, Stefania Sandrelli, Leopoldo Trieste, Odoardo Spadaro. Overview: A married Sicilian baron falls in love with his cousin and vows to wed her, but with divorce illegal he must concoct a crime of passion to do away with his wife. Genres: Comedy, Foreign. Country: Italy. Runtime: 1h 45m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Viridiana 1961 Directors: Luis Buñuel, Juan Luis Buñuel, José Puyol. Cast: Silvia Pinal, Francisco Rabal, Fernando Rey, José Calvo, Margarita Lozano, Victoria Zinny, Teresa Rabal, Luis Heredia, Joaquín Roa, José Manuel Martín, Lola Gaos, Juan García Tiendra, Sergio Mendizábal. Overview: Viridiana, a young nun about to take her final vows, pays a visit to her widowed uncle at the request of her Mother Superior. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Foreign, Indie. Countries: Spain, Mexico. Runtime: 1h 30m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid 1969 Not that it matters, but most of it is true. Director: George Roy Hill. Cast: Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Katharine Ross, Strother Martin, Henry Jones, Jeff Corey, George Furth, Cloris Leachman, Ted Cassidy, Kenneth Mars, Donnelly Rhodes, Kelly Williams. Overview: Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a western comedy from 1969 starring Paul Newman and Robert Redford, two robbers with one more job to finish. The film was biggest box-office hit of the 60’s. Genres: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 50m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 The Lonely Wife 1964 Charulata Director: Satyajit Ray. Cast: Soumitra Chatterjee, Madhabi Mukherjee, Shailen Mukherjee. Overview: The film tells the story of a lonely housewife, known as Charu (Madhabi Mukherjee), who lives a wealthy, secluded and idle life in 1870's Calcutta. Her husband, Bhupati (Sailen Mukherjee), runs a newspaper, The Sentinel, and spends more time at work than with his wife. However, he notices that Charu is lonely, and asks his cousin, Amal (Soumitra Chatterjee), to keep her company. Amal is a writer a Genres: Foreign, Romance. Country: India. Runtime: 1h 57m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 Persona 1966 Director: Ingmar Bergman. Cast: Bibi Andersson, Liv Ullmann, Margaretha Krook, Gunnar Björnstrand, Jörgen Lindström. Overview: Persona is a psychoanalytical film from Swedish director Ingmar Bergman and reputed as his greatest masterpiece. The film deals with a silent actress and her relationship with her nurse who narrates her story. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: Sweden. Runtime: 1h 25m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 1966 You are cordially invited to George and Martha's for an evening of fun and games Directors: Bud Grace, Michael Daves, Mike Nichols. Cast: Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, George Segal, Sandy Dennis. Overview: Mike Nichols’ film from Edward Albees play brought new themes to the film industry. Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton have never been more brilliant together as they portray an experienced married couple who love each other yet verbally attack one another when they see how boring their naïve newlywed guests have made their night. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 11m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 Samurai Rebellion 1967 Jôi-uchi: Hairyô tsuma shimatsu Director: Masaki Kobayashi. Cast: Toshiro Mifune, Yôko Tsukasa, Takeshi Katô, Tatsuyoshi Ehara, Etsuko Ichihara, Isao Yamagata, Tatsuya Nakadai, Shigeru Kôyama, Michiko Otsuka. Overview: The mother of a feudal lord's only heir is kidnapped away from her husband by the lord. The husband and his samurai father must decide whether to accept the unjust decision, or risk death to get her back. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 8m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Le Samurai 1967 Le Samouraï Director: Jean-Pierre Melville. Cast: Alain Delon, François Périer, Nathalie Delon, Cathy Rosier, Catherine Jourdan. Overview: Hitman Jef Costello is a perfectionist who always carefully plans his murders and who never gets caught... Genres: Drama, Action, Thriller, Crime, Foreign. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 1h 45m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 The Hustler 1961 They called him Fast Eddie. He was a winner. He was a loser. He was a hustler. Director: Robert Rossen. Cast: Paul Newman, Jackie Gleason, Piper Laurie, George C. Scott, Myron McCormick, Murray Hamilton, Michael Constantine, Gordon B. Clarke. Overview: Fast Eddie Felson is a small-time pool hustler with a lot of talent but a self-destructive attitude. His bravado causes him to challenge the legendary Minnesota Fats to a high-stakes match, but he loses in a heartbreaking marathon. Now broke and without his long-time manager, Felson faces an uphill battle to regain his confidence and his game. It isn't until he hits rock bottom that he agrees to join up with ruthless and cutthroat manager Bert Gordon. Gordon agrees to take him on the road to learn the ropes. But Felson soon realizes that making it to the top could cost him his soul, and perhaps his girlfriend. Will he decide that this is too steep a price to pay in time to save himself? Genres: Drama, Sport. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 14m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 The Graduate 1967 This is Benjamin. He's a little worried about his future. Director: Mike Nichols. Cast: Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, Katharine Ross, Murray Hamilton, Buck Henry, Brian Avery, Walter Brooke, William Daniels. Overview: Recent college graduate Benjamin Braddock is trapped into an affair with Mrs. Robinson, who happens to be the wife of his father's business partner and then finds himself falling in love with her teenage daughter, Elaine. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 8½ 1963 Eight and a Half Director: Federico Fellini. Cast: Marcello Mastroianni, Claudia Cardinale, Anouk Aimée, Sandra Milo, Rossella Falk, Barbara Steele, Madeleine Lebeau, Caterina Boratto, Eddra Gale, Guido Alberti. Overview: With 8 ½ Frederico Fellini leaves a self-portrait where dreams and reality are a mix. With help from a most excellent cast and unique scenery this self reflecting film is one of his master works. Genres: Drama, Fantasy. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 2h 18m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 Army of Shadows 1969 L'Armée des ombres Director: Jean-Pierre Melville. Cast: Lino Ventura, Paul Meurisse, Jean-Pierre Cassel, Simone Signoret. Overview: Atmospheric and gripping, Army of Shadows is Jean-Pierre Melville’s masterpiece about the French Resistance underground fighters who must grapple with their own brand of honor in their battle against Hitler’s regime. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History, Thriller. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 2h 25m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Inherit The Wind 1960 Director: Stanley Kramer. Cast: Spencer Tracy, Fredric March, Gene Kelly, Dick York, Donna Anderson, Harry Morgan. Overview: This gripping adaptation of the Jerome Lawrence-Robert E. Lee play examines an issue that still causes great controversy: the role religion should play in the schools. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 8m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 When a Woman Ascends the Stairs 1960 Onna ga kaidan wo agaru toki Director: Mikio Naruse. Cast: Masayuki Mori, Reiko Dan, Tatsuya Nakadai. Overview: Keiko, whom everyone calls Mama, narrates her story: she's a hostess on the Ginza, 30, a widow. She describes life's vicious cycle: acting cheerful around drunks, dressing and living well to convey confidence, needing money for these expenses and for her demanding mother and brother, and knowing she's growing older. She's of an age when she must choose: to seek marriage (difficult given her tarnished occupation), to be a kept woman, or to borrow money to buy a bar of her own. Each route has dangers, including investors demanding a return on their loans. Keiko has a quiet dignity that attracts men, but are they what they seem? Does she actually have choices? Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 51m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 Watch Out for the Automobile 1966 Берегись автомобиля Director: Eldar Ryazanov. Cast: Innokenti Smoktunovsky, Oleg Efremov, Olga Aroseva, Lyubov Dobrzhanskaya, Anatoli Papanov, Andrei Mironov, Georgi Zhzhyonov, Evgeni Evstigneev, Donatas Banionis, Lyubov Sokolova, Vyacheslav Nevinnyy, Gotlib Roninson, Galina Volchek. Overview: An insurance agent who moonlights as a carthief steals cars various crooks and never from the common people. He sells the stolen cars and gives the money to charity. His best friend, a cop, is assigned to bring in this modern robin hood. Genres: Comedy, Crime. Country: Russian Federation. Runtime: 1h 34m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 The Executioner 1963 El verdugo Director: Luis García Berlanga. Cast: Nino Manfredi, José Isbert, Emma Penella, Ángel Álvarez, José Luis López Vázquez, Guido Alberti, María Luisa Ponte, María Isbert. Overview: An undertaker gets married to an old executioner's daughter and, although he doesn't like it, must continue the profession of his father-in-law after his retirement. Genre: Drama. Countries: Spain, Italy. Runtime: 1h 27m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 Z 1969 Director: Constantin Costa-Gavras. Cast: Yves Montand, Irene Papas, Jean-Louis Trintignant, Jacques Perrin, Charles Denner, Bernard Fresson, François Périer, Pierre Dux, Georges Géret, Magali Noël, Marcel Bozzuffi, Renato Salvatori, Jean Bouise, Julien Guiomar, Jean Dasté. Overview: A pulse-pounding political thriller, Greek expatriate director Costa-Gavras’s Z was one of the cinematic sensations of the late sixties, and remains among the most vital dispatches from that hallowed era of filmmaking. This Academy Award winner—loosely based on the 1963 assassination of Greek left-wing activist Gregoris Lambrakis—stars Yves Montand as a prominent politician and doctor whose public murder amid a violent demonstration is covered up by military and government officials; Jean-Louis Trintignant is the tenacious magistrate who’s determined not to let them get away with it. Featuring kinetic, rhythmic editing, Raoul Coutard’s expressive vérité photography, and Mikis Theodorakis’s unforgettable, propulsive score, Z is a technically audacious and emotionally gripping masterpiece. Genres: Foreign, Thriller. Countries: Algeria, France. Runtime: 2h 7m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Ivan's Childhood 1962 Ivanovo Detstvo Director: Andrei Tarkovsky. Cast: Nikolay Burlyaev, Valentin Zubkov, Nikolay Grinko, Yevgeni Zharikov, Irma Raush, Vakentina Malyavina, Stepan Krylov, Dmitri Milyutenko. Overview: Poetic journey through the shards and shadows of one boy’s war-ravaged youth. Genres: Drama, War. Country: Russia. Runtime: 1h 35m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 The Lion in Winter 1968 Director: Anthony Harvey. Cast: Peter O'Toole, Katharine Hepburn, Anthony Hopkins, John Castle, Nigel Terry, Timothy Dalton, Jane Merrow, Nigel Stock, Kenneth Ives, O.Z. Whitehead. Overview: 1183 AD: King Henry II's three sons all want to inherit the throne, but he won't commit to a choice. They and his wife variously plot to force him. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 14m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 The Wild Bunch 1969 Director: Sam Peckinpah. Cast: Ernest Borgnine, William Holden, Robert Ryan, Edmond O'Brien, Warren Oates, Jaime Sánchez, Ben Johnson, Emilio Fernández, Strother Martin, L.Q. Jones. Overview: The Wild Bunch is one of the best representations of the Western genre; A group of outlaws is in battle with the law and with modern society. Genres: Action, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 23m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 The War Game 1965 BBC TV's film about a nuclear attack on Britain directed by Peter Watkins. Director: Peter Watkins. Cast: Michael Aspel. Overview: The War Game is a fictional, worst-case-scenario docu-drama about nuclear war and its aftermath in and around a typical English city. Genre: Drama. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 48m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 Red Beard 1965 Akahige Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Toshirô Mifune, Yûzô Kayama, Takashi Shimura, Kyôko Kagawa. Overview: Set in feudal times, novice physician, Yuzo Kayama, is sent to a poor infirmary expecting just to visit, but is infuriated to learn he must stay. He tries to provoke his termination, but is foiled by head doctor "Red Beard" (Toshiro Mifune), a man whose methods are as caring as they are unpredictable. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie. Country: Japan. Runtime: 3h 5m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 Sanjuro 1962 Tsubaki Sanjûrô Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Toshirô Mifune, Tatsuya Nakadai, Keiju Kobayashi, Yûzô Kayama. Overview: A crafty samurai helps a young man and his fellow clansmen save his uncle, who has been framed and imprisoned by a corrupt superintendent. Genres: Drama, Action, Comedy, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance 1962 Together For The First Time - James Stewart - John Wayne - in the masterpiece of four-time Academy Award winner John Ford Director: John Ford. Cast: John Wayne, James Stewart, Vera Miles, Lee Marvin, Edmond O'Brien, Andy Devine, Ken Murray, John Carradine, Jeanette Nolan, John Qualen. Overview: A senator, who became famous for killing a notorious outlaw, returns for the funeral of an old friend and tells the truth about his deed. Genres: Action, Mystery, Thriller, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 3m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 The Shop on Main Street 1966 Obchod na korze Director: Elmar Klos. Cast: Ida Kaminska, Martin Gregor, Jozef Króner. Overview: Slovakia during WW2. Tono lives a poor life, but the authorities offer him a take over the Jewish widow Lautman's little shop for sewing material. Genres: Drama, Foreign, War. Country: Czech Republic. Runtime: 2h 8m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 The Exterminating Angel 1962 El ángel exterminador Director: Luis Buñuel. Cast: Silvia Pinal, Enrique Rambal, Claudio Brook, José Baviera, Augusto Benedico, Antonio Bravo, Jacqueline Andere, César del Campo, Rosa Elena Durgel, Lucy Gallardo. Overview: The guests at an upper-class dinner party find themselves unable to leave. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Fantasy, Foreign, Indie. Country: Mexico. Runtime: 1h 35m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 The Virgin Spring 1960 Jungfrukällan Director: Ingmar Bergman. Cast: Max von Sydow, Birgitta Valberg, Gunnel Lindblom, Birgitta Pettersson, Axel Düberg. Overview: Set in beautiful 14th century Sweden, it is the somber, powerful fable of peasant parents whose daughter, a young virgin, is brutally raped and murdered by goat herders. By a bizarre twist of fate, the murderers ask for food and shelter from the dead girl's parents, who, discovering the truth about their erstwhile lodgers, exact a chilling revenge. Genres: Crime, Drama, Foreign, Indie, Thriller. Country: Sweden. Runtime: 1h 29m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 La dolce vita 1961 Director: Federico Fellini. Cast: Marcello Mastroianni, Anita Ekberg, Anouk Aimée, Yvonne Furneaux, Magali Noël, Alain Cuny, Annibale Ninchi, Walter Santesso, Valeria Ciangottini, Riccardo Garrone, Ida Galli, Lex Barker, Nadia Gray. Overview: An episodic romantic film, built up with many stories instead of one main plot, that ponders the voids and decadence of high society. A classic film and upon it’s first night out a scandal. The 1960 film by Federico Fellini is named the film that split up his earlier neo-realist films from the art films he did later in his career. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Foreign. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 2h 54m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 Il Posto 1961 Director: Ermanno Olmi. Cast: Loredana Detto, Sandro Panseri. Overview: Domenico and Antonietta are two suburban Italian youths who meet while seeking "a job for life" from a big city corporation. Genres: Action, Comedy, Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Country: Italy. Runtime: 1h 33m. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
