#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Arizona_AZ_Colleges_Schools_Universities_and_General_Facts_about.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/articles/Arizona_AZ_Colleges_Schools_Universities_and_General_Facts_about.html
http://study.com/tempe%2C_arizona_%28az%29_colleges.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/videos/How_to_Select_the_Right_School_Video.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/Accredited_Online_Degree_Programs_in_Facility_and_Event_Management.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://study.com/program/Colorado_Technical_University_BS_in_Psychology_-_Organizational_Behavior.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Arizona (AZ): Colleges, Schools, Universities and General Facts
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies College and University Overviews (by State)  /  A - D  /  Arizona (AZ): Colleges, Schools,... Arizona (AZ): Colleges, Schools, Universities and General Facts Arizona is home to about 39 public and not-for-profit higher education institutions. See rankings of the program variety, net price, graduation rate and student-faculty ratio for schools in Arizona to determine which schools might be right for you. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools School Ranking Overview An abundance of postsecondary institutions exist throughout Arizona, particularly in the major metropolitan area including and surrounding Phoenix. This article examines private non-profit and public colleges and universities all over the state, including those in places like Prescott, Flagstaff and Tucson. After comparing these schools with each other, we rank the top three choices in the categories below, allowing Arizona students to see if any represent a good academic fit: Most Program Variety Lowest Net Price Highest Graduation Rate Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio Most Program Variety Students who are unsure about their career path may want to choose a school that offers numerous program options. Having multiple options allows students to explore different areas in order to determine the right career path. The three Arizona schools below all have at least 180 programs, which are most in the state. 1 - Arizona State University Arizona State University is located in Tempe and offers approximately 215 programs. Students can pursue programs in arts and sciences, health solutions, business, education, engineering, design and the arts, law and journalism. According to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), the most popular bachelor's degrees in 2011-2012 included psychology, multi-/interdisciplinary studies, speech communication and biology. The most pursued master's degrees were business administration and management, social work and electrical/electronics engineering. Law, music and electrical/electronics engineering were the most popular doctoral programs. 2 - University of Arizona Located in Tucson, students at the University of Arizona can choose from about 200 programs. The university has numerous colleges and schools that offer undergraduate and graduate degrees, including degrees in arts and dance, education, medicine, engineering, science, journalism, fine arts and many more. Psychology was the most popular bachelor's degree in 2011-2012, followed by political science and physiology, according to the NCES. Popular master's degrees included business administration and management and library and information science. The most popular doctoral programs were law, medicine and pharmacy. 3 - Northern Arizona University Northern Arizona University sits in Flagstaff and has roughly 180 programs. Students can pursue programs in business, education, arts and letters, health and human services, and social and behavioral sciences. The NCES reported in 2011-2012 that the most popular bachelor's degrees were in liberal arts and sciences, elementary education, business administration and hospitality administration. Educational leadership and administration, elementary education and school counseling were the most popular master's degrees. The most commonly pursued doctoral degrees included physical therapy and educational leadership and administration. Lowest Net Price The net price is determined by taking the amount of government and institutional aid and subtracting it from the cost of attendance. The NCES lists the net price for each school in the state of Arizona for the 2010-2011 academic year. The three schools listed below have the lowest net price in the state, which ranged from about $3,000-$4,600, according to the NCES. 1 - Pima Community College Pima Community College is a 2-year school located in Tucson and had a net price of $2,971. For the 2012-2013 academic year, the tuition at the college was $1,642 for in-state students and $7,784 for out-of-state students, according to the NCES. Students at Pima can pursue certificates and associate's degrees in business, health, education, computer information systems, public safety, social sciences and more. 2 - Cochise College Cochise College in Douglas is a 2-year school with a net price of $3,805. Academic departments at the school include business technology, liberal arts, and mathematics and sciences. The NCES reported that tuition at the college in 2012-2013 was $1,680 for in-state students and $6,960 for out-of-state students. 3 - Yavapai College Located in Prescott, Yavapai College has the third lowest net price in the state at $4,597. The tuition for in-state students was $1,824, and it was $9,432 for out-of-state students, according to the NCES in 2012-2013. Students at the college can pursue over 30 degree programs and almost 60 certificates. Highest Graduation Rates Graduation rates demonstrate how many students complete their program. The NCES reports graduation rates for students who completed their program in the normal time for the program and within 150% of normal time, which is three years for associate's degrees and six years for bachelor's degrees. The 150% graduation rate is called the 'overall graduation rate' by NCES. The top three schools in Arizona have at least 80% overall graduation rates and are all small, less than 2-year or 2-year public schools. 1 - Tohono O'Odham Community College Tohono O'Odham Community College is a tribal college in Sells operated by the Tohono O'Odham Nation. For students who began their program at this school in Fall 2008, 100% graduated in normal time for their program. In addition to certificates and associate's degrees, the college has apprenticeships in carpentry, plumbing, construction painting, electrical and facilities management. 2 - Southwest Skill Center - Campus of Estrella Mountain Community College Southwest Skill Center (SKC) is located on the campus of Estrella Mountain Community College in Avondale. The SKC offers short-term certificate programs in allied health, veterinary assisting, industrial electronics and distribution logistics. These programs are designed to prepare students to enter the workforce. The overall graduation rate for students who began their studies in 2008 was 93%; the retention rate from 2010 to 2011 for full-time students was 88%. Over 400 students attended the college in 2011. 3 - East Valley Institute of Technology East Valley Institute of Technology is situated in Mesa, and the overall graduation rate at the school was 80% for students who enrolled in 2008. The 2010 to 2011 retention rate was 93% for full-time students and 89% for part-time students. The institute offers high school and adult vocational training programs. Lowest Student-Faculty Ratios Another factor to consider when choosing a college is the student-faculty ratio. A low ratio may provide students with more attention inside and outside of the classroom. While most of the schools in Arizona have a student-faculty ratio over 15:1 according to the NCES, the schools described below feature ratios 15:1 and below. 1 - Tohono O'Odham Community College NCES enrollment figures for Tohono O'Odham Community College show that this school had a student-faculty ratio of 6:1 in 2011. In addition to 17 full-time faculty members, the college employed 10 part-time instructional educators. The school had an enrollment of 295 students in 2011. 2 - Prescott College Prescott College is located in Prescott and is a private, not-for-profit school that offers programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels. The student-faculty ratio was 8:1 in 2011, and the school had a population of 1,134 students. Seventy-six full-time faculty members were employed at Prescott in 2011. 3 - Cochise College Based on 2011 NCES figures, Cochise College the third lowest student-faculty ratio in Arizona with a ratio of 15:1. In 2011, the Cochise student population comprised 4,912 undergraduates according to NCES. There were 92 full-time and 313 part-time faculty members. Arizona Schools at a Glance School Name Location School Type Program Levels Offered Area Ranking Arizona State University Tempe, Arizona 4-year, public 1-year certificates; bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees; post-master's certificates Most Program Variety Cochise College Douglas, Arizona 2-year, public 1-year certificates, 1- to 2-year certificates; associate's degrees 2nd Lowest Net Price 3rd Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio East Valley Institute of Technology Mesa, Arizona <2-year, public 1-year and 1- to 2-year certificates 3rd Highest Graduation Rate Northern Arizona University Flagstaff, Arizona 4-year, public 1-year certificates; bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees; postbaccalaureate certificates 3rd Most Program Variety Pima Community College Tucson, Arizona 2-year, public 1-year and 1- to 2-year certificates; associate's degrees Lowest Net Price Prescott College Prescott, Arizona 4-year, private, not-for-profit Bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees; postbaccalaureate and post-master's certificates 2nd Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio Southwest Skill Center - Campus of Estrella Mountain Community College Avondale, Arizona <2-year, public 1-year and 1- to 2-year certificates 2nd Highest Graduation Rate Tohono O'Odham Community College Sells, Arizona 2-year, public 1-year and 1- to 2-year certificates; associate's degrees Highest Graduation Rate Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona 4-year, public 1-year certificates; bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees; postbaccalaureate and post-master's certificates 2nd Most Program Variety Yavapai College Prescott, Arizona 2-year, public 1-year and 1- to 2-year certificates; associate's degrees 3rd Lowest Net Price Show me 10 popular schools Related to Arizona (AZ): Colleges, Schools, Universities and General Facts RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles How to Select the Right School Video Overview of the College Transfer Process Video Chandler, Arizona (AZ) Colleges Arizona Psychology Universities Tucson, Arizona (AZ) Colleges Nursing Schools in Arizona Architecture Colleges in Arizona All About the GED: Arizona Passing the General Educational Development (GED) Test can prepare individuals for better paying jobs, military service or... Arizona Career Guide: Top Growing Career Opportunities in Arizona (AZ) Looking for a job in Arizona? Arizona has a lot to offer its residents - lovely weather, spectacular scenery, and, for the... Mesa Job Outlook: Top Growing Career Opportunities in Mesa, Arizona With a population of nearly 500,000, Mesa, Arizona, is the 38th largest city in the United States and the 3rd largest in... Top School in Phoenix for CAD Drafting Courses Students interested in CAD drafting will find a number of associate's degree and certificate options in the Phoenix area. Read... Top School in Phoenix for an Interior Design Degree Medical Schools in Arizona Arizona Broadcasting Colleges Best School for Learning Massage Therapy - Phoenix, AZ Top School in Phoenix for Fashion Merchandising Training Top School in Phoenix for Web Design Training Career Information for a Degree in English Language and Literature Behavior Analyst: Job Description and Education Requirements Online PhD Programs in Engineering: Degree Overviews Adult School Programs for Becoming a Media Reporter Chef Training: Top Rated Culinary School - Tucson, AZ Phoenix Career Guide: Fastest Growing Phoenix, AZ Careers Bachelor in Database Management: Program Information Difference Between an Associate Degree and Bachelors Degree Client Services Manager: Job Description & Career Requirements Be a Plumbing Inspector Career Guide How to Become a Magistrate Judge Career Guide Classes to Take for Architecture Distance Learning EdD Programs Overviews by Specialization Universities with a PhD in Electrical Engineering EE How to Choose Accredited Online Degree Programs in Facility and Event Management Bachelor Degree Fast Online Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Kaplan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED 🌟 Graduate faster & save money with Study.com transfer credit 🌟 School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path, Executive Leader Specialization Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path Master MS in Criminal Justice - Law Master of Science in Legal Studies MS in Psychology MBA MS in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Science in Psychology, Industrial/Organizational Psychology Bachelor BS in Liberal Studies BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Investment Career Focus Area BS in Liberal Studies Leadership BS in Nutrition Science Associate AAS in Business Administration - Business AAS in Legal Support and Services AAS in Business Administration AAS in Business Admin-Office Management AAS in Criminal Justice AAS in Accounting Non-Degree Certificate in Human Services Pathway to Paralegal Postbaccalaureate Certificate Family Nurse Practitioner Graduate Certificate Executive Leader Graduate Certificate Adult Gerontology Practitioner Certificate Nurse Educator Graduate Certificate Get Started with Kaplan University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school 2Colorado Technical University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Management Criminal Justice Doctor of Computer Science Doctor of Computer Science in Information Assurance Doctor of Management in Graduate Level Instructional Practices Doctor of Computer Science in Enterprise Information Systems Doctor of Management in Organizational Development and Change Master Master of Science in Computer Science MS in Computer Science - Database Systems Master of Business Administration MBA in Entrepreneurship Master of Science in Computer Science - Computer Systems Security MS - Information Technology Bachelor BS in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice BS in Psychology - Organizational Behavior BS in Psychology - Consumer Behavior BS in Nursing (RN to BSN completion) Bachelor of Science in Information Technology - Web Development Associate Associate of Science in Business Administration AS in Health Administration Services Get Started with Colorado Technical University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate No HS Diploma/No GED 3Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance Bachelor BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management Bachelor BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 6Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management Bachelor BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies Associate AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Non-Degree Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 7Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Master M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Non-Degree Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 8American InterContinental University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Management MBA in Operations Management Master of Business Administration - Accounting Master of Information Technology - Information Assurance and Security MBA in Project Management Master of Education - Elementary Education Bachelor Bachelor of Business Administration - Generalist Bachelor or Science - Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement BBA in Marketing BBA in Accounting Bachelor of Business Administration - Finance Bachelor of Technology: Information Assurance and Security Associate Associate of Arts in Business Administration Associate of Science in Criminal Justice Get Started with American InterContinental University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate No HS Diploma/No GED 9Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management Bachelor BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 10Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Kaplan University Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path, Executive Leader Specialization Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path MS in Criminal Justice - Law Master of Science in Legal Studies MS in Psychology MBA MS in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Science in Psychology, Industrial/Organizational Psychology BS in Liberal Studies BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Investment Career Focus Area BS in Liberal Studies Leadership BS in Nutrition Science AAS in Business Administration - Business AAS in Legal Support and Services AAS in Business Administration AAS in Business Admin-Office Management AAS in Criminal Justice AAS in Accounting Certificate in Human Services Pathway to Paralegal Postbaccalaureate Certificate Family Nurse Practitioner Graduate Certificate Executive Leader Graduate Certificate Adult Gerontology Practitioner Certificate Nurse Educator Graduate Certificate View more Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 2 Colorado Technical University Doctor of Management Criminal Justice Doctor of Computer Science Doctor of Computer Science in Information Assurance Doctor of Management in Graduate Level Instructional Practices Doctor of Computer Science in Enterprise Information Systems Doctor of Management in Organizational Development and Change Master of Science in Computer Science MS in Computer Science - Database Systems Master of Business Administration MBA in Entrepreneurship Master of Science in Computer Science - Computer Systems Security MS - Information Technology BS in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice BS in Psychology - Organizational Behavior BS in Psychology - Consumer Behavior BS in Nursing (RN to BSN completion) Bachelor of Science in Information Technology - Web Development Associate of Science in Business Administration AS in Health Administration Services View more Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No 3 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 6 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 7 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 8 American InterContinental University MBA in Management MBA in Operations Management Master of Business Administration - Accounting Master of Information Technology - Information Assurance and Security MBA in Project Management Master of Education - Elementary Education Bachelor of Business Administration - Generalist Bachelor or Science - Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement BBA in Marketing BBA in Accounting Bachelor of Business Administration - Finance Bachelor of Technology: Information Assurance and Security Associate of Arts in Business Administration Associate of Science in Criminal Justice View more Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No 9 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 10 Penn Foster High School Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry View more What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 Show more schools… Arizona Colleges Arizona Cities Nearby States Avondale, AZ Schools Chandler, AZ Schools Flagstaff, AZ Schools Glendale, AZ Schools Mesa, AZ Schools Phoenix, AZ Schools Prescott, AZ Schools Scottsdale, AZ Schools Tempe, AZ Schools Tucson, AZ Schools Yuma, AZ Schools California Colleges Colorado Colleges Nevada Colleges New Mexico Colleges Utah Colleges Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
