#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 2008 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 2008 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 The Dark Knight 2008 Why So Serious? Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Christian Bale, Heath Ledger, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Aaron Eckhart, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, Michael Caine, Eric Roberts, Michael Jai White, James Smith, Monique Gabriela Curnen, Ron Dean, Cillian Murphy, Chin Han, Ritchie Coster. Overview: Batman raises the stakes in his war on crime. With the help of Lt. Jim Gordon and District Attorney Harvey Dent, Batman sets out to dismantle the remaining criminal organizations that plague the streets. The partnership proves to be effective, but they soon find themselves prey to a reign of chaos unleashed by a rising criminal mastermind known to the terrified citizens of Gotham as the Joker. Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Fantasy, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 32m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 Wall·E 2008 An adventure beyond the ordinar-E. Director: Andrew Stanton. Cast: Ben Burtt, Elissa Knight, Jeff Garlin, MacInTalk, John Ratzenberger, Sigourney Weaver, Kathy Najimy, Fred Willard. Overview: WALL-E is the last robot left on an Earth that has been overrun with garbage and all humans have fled to outer space. For 700 years he has continued to try and clean up the mess, but has developed some rather interesting human-like qualities. When a ship arrives with a sleek new type of robot, Wall-E thinks he's finally found a friend and stows away on the ship when it leaves. Genres: Animation, Adventure, Family, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 44m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 Gran Torino 2008 Ever come across somebody you shouldn't have messed with? Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Clint Eastwood, Cory Hardrict, John Carroll Lynch, Geraldine Hughes, Brian Haley, Dreama Walker, Doua Moua, Brian Howe, Sarah Neubauer, Lee Mong Vang, Nana Gbewonyo, Christopher Carley, Bee Vang, John Anton, Austin Douglas Smith. Overview: Walt Kowalski, an iron-willed and inflexible Korean War veteran living in a changing world, is forced by his immigrant neighbors to confront his long-held prejudices. Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 56m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Slumdog Millionaire 2008 What does it take to find a lost love? A. Money B. Luck C. Smarts D. Destiny Directors: Loveleen Tandan, Danny Boyle. Cast: Anil Kapoor, Mia Drake Inderbitzin, Dev Patel, Saurabh Shukla, Rajendranath Zutshi, Jeneva Talwar, Freida Pinto, Irrfan Khan. Overview: The story of the life of an impoverished Indian teen Jamal Malik, who becomes a contestant on the Hindi version of "Who Wants to be A Millionaire?", wins, and is then suspected of cheating. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie, Romance. Countries: India, United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 A Wednesday 2008 Director: Neeraj Pandey. Cast: Anupam Kher, Naseeruddin Shah, Deepal Shaw, Aamir Bashir, Kali Prasad Mukherjee, Rohitash Gaud, Vijay Bhatia, Jimmy Shergill. Overview: Mumbai, the financial capital of India, the city that never sleeps, the city of dreams, fast paced and ever changing, home to Bollywood! A City of beauty but also a city that got scarred! A city whose foundation is slowly crumbling beneath its façade of invincibility! 'A Wednesday!' tells the story of certain events that unfold between 2.P.M and 6 P.M on a particular Wednesday in this city. Genres: Action, Drama, Eastern, Foreign. Country: India. Runtime: 1h 43m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 Ip Man 2008 The celebrated Kung Fu master of Bruce Lee. Director: Wilson Yip. Cast: Donnie Yen, Simon Yam, Yu Xing, You-Nam Wong, Chen Zhi Hui. Overview: A semi-biographical account of Yip Man, the first martial arts master to teach the Chinese martial art of Wing Chun. The film focuses on events surrounding Ip that took place in the city of Foshan between the 1930s to 1940s during the Second Sino-Japanese War. Directed by Wilson Yip, the film stars Donnie Yen in the lead role, and features fight choreography by Sammo Hung. Genres: Action, Foreign, History. Country: Hong Kong. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 Departures 2008 おくりびと Director: Yôjirô Takita. Cast: Masahiro Motoki, Tsutomu Yamazaki, Ryoko Hirosue, Kazuko Yoshiyuki, Kimiko Yo, Takashi Sasano. Overview: Daigo, a cellist, is laid off from his orchestra and moves with his wife back to his small hometown where the living is cheaper. Thinking he’s applying for a job at a travel agency he finds he’s being interviewed for work with departures of a more permanent nature – as an undertaker’s assistant. Genre: Drama. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 The Wrestler 2008 Love. Pain. Glory. Director: Darren Aronofsky. Cast: Evan Rachel Wood, Marisa Tomei, Mickey Rourke, Ajay Naidu, Judah Friedlander, Dylan Keith Summers. Overview: Mickey Rourke stars as retired professional wrestler Randy "The Ram" Robinson, who returns to the ring to work his way up the circuit for a final shot at defeating his longtime rival. Along the way, he tries to reconnect with his estranged daughter while exploring a relationship with an aging stripper named Cassidy. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 49m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 Let the Right One In 2008 Låt den rätte komma in Eli is 12 years old. She's been 12 for over 200 years and, she just moved in next door. Director: Tomas Alfredson. Cast: Kåre Hedebrant, Lina Leandersson, Per Ragnar, Henrik Dahl, Karin Bergquist, Peter Carlberg, Ika Nord, Mikael Rahm, Karl-Robert Lindgren, Anders T. Peedu, Pale Olofsson, Cayetano Ruiz, Patrik Rydmark, Johan Sömnes, Mikael Erhardsson. Overview: Oscar, an overlooked and bullied boy, finds love and revenge through Eli, a beautiful but peculiar girl who turns out to be a vampire. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Horror, Indie, Romance, Thriller. Country: Sweden. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 In Bruges 2008 Shoot first. Sightsee later. Director: Martin McDonagh. Cast: Colin Farrell, Brendan Gleeson, Ralph Fiennes, Clémence Poésy, Thekla Reuten, Jordan Prentice, Elizabeth Berrington, Jérémie Renier. Overview: Ray and Ken, two hit men, are in Bruges, Belgium, waiting for their next mission. While they are there they have time to think and discuss their previous assignment. When the mission is revealed to Ken, it is not what he expected. Genres: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Countries: Belgium, United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 47m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Waltz with Bashir 2008 Vals Im Bashir Director: Ari Folman. Cast: Ron Ben-Yishai, Dror Harazi, Ronny Dayag, Ari Folman. Overview: One night at a bar, an old friend tells director Ari Folman about a recurring nightmare in which he is chased by 26 vicious dogs. Every night, the same number of beasts. The two men conclude that there’s a connection to their Israeli Army mission in the first Lebanon War of the early eighties. Ari is surprised that he can’t remember a thing anymore about that period of his life. Genres: Animation, Documentary, Drama, Foreign, History, War. Countries: Israel, France, Germany. Runtime: 1h 30m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 Changeling 2008 To find her son, she did what no one else dared. Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Angelina Jolie, Jeffrey Donovan, John Malkovich, Geoff Pierson, Amy Ryan. Overview: Christine Collins is overjoyed when her kidnapped son is brought back home. But when Christine suspects that the boy returned to her isn't her child, the police captain has her committed to an asylum. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 The Curious Case of Benjamin Button 2008 Life isn't measured in minutes, but in moments. Director: David Fincher. Cast: Cate Blanchett, Brad Pitt, Tilda Swinton, Elle Fanning, Jason Flemyng, Elias Koteas, Julia Ormond, Taraji P. Henson, Bianca Chiminello, Josh Stewart. Overview: Tells the story of Benjamin Button, a man who starts aging backwards with bizarre consequences. Genres: Fantasy, Drama, Thriller, Science Fiction, Mystery, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 46m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 The Chaser 2008 Chugyeogja Director: Hong-jin Na. Cast: Yun-seok Kim, Jung-woo Ha, Yeong-hie Seo. Overview: Joong-ho is a dirty detective turned pimp in financial trouble as several of his girls have recently disappeared without clearing their debts. While trying to track them down, he finds a clue that the vanished girls were all called up by a same client whom one of his girls is meeting with right now. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Country: Korea. Runtime: 2h 5m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 Iron Man 2008 Heroes aren't born. They're built. Director: Jon Favreau. Cast: Robert Downey Jr, Gwyneth Paltrow, Jeff Bridges, Terrence Howard, Leslie Bibb, Faran Tahir, Shaun Toub. Overview: After escaping from kidnappers using makeshift power armor, an ultrarich inventor and weapons maker turns his creation into a force for good by using it to fight crime. But his skills are stretched to the limit when he must face the evil Iron Monger. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy, Action, Thriller, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 6m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Taken 2008 They took his daughter. He'll take their lives. Director: Pierre Morel. Cast: Liam Neeson, Famke Janssen, Maggie Grace, Katie Cassidy, Holly Valance, Xander Berkeley. Overview: While vacationing with a friend in Paris, an American girl is kidnapped by a gang of human traffickers intent on selling her into forced prostitution. Working against the clock, her ex-spy father must pull out all the stops to save her. But with his best years possibly behind him, the job may be more than he can handle. Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Suspense, Thriller. Countries: France, United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 33m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Frost/Nixon 2008 400 million people were waiting for the truth Director: Ron Howard. Cast: Michael Sheen, Frank Langella, Kevin Bacon, Sam Rockwell, Mark Simich. Overview: A dramatic retelling of the post-Watergate television interviews between British talk-show host David Frost and former president Richard Nixon. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 Milk 2008 Never Blend In. Director: Gus Van Sant. Cast: Sean Penn, Emile Hirsch, James Franco, Josh Brolin, Diego Luna, Alison Pill. Overview: The story of California's first openly gay elected official, Harvey Milk, a San Francisco supervisor. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 8m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 The Boy in the Striped Pajamas 2008 The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas Director: Mark Herman. Cast: David Thewlis, Asa Butterfield, Zac Mattoon O'Brien, Domonkos Németh, Henry Kingsmill, Vera Farmiga. Overview: Set during World War II, a story seen through the innocent eyes of Bruno, the eight-year-old son of the commandant at a concentration camp, whose forbidden friendship with a Jewish boy on the other side of the camp fence has startling and unexpected consequences. Genres: Drama, History, War, Foreign. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 34m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 Ponyo 2009 Gake no ue no Ponyo Welcome To A World Where Anything Is Possible. Director: Hayao Miyazaki. Cast: Yuria Nara, Hiroki Doi, Jôji Tokoro, Tomoko Yamaguchi, Yûki Amami, Kazushige Nagashima, Akiko Yano, Shinichi Hatori, Tokie Hidari, Eimi Hiraoka, Rumi Hîragi, Tomoko Naraoka, Nozomi Ôhashi, Kazuko Yoshiyuki. Overview: Ponyo on the Cliff by the Sea (崖の上のポニョ, Gake no Ue no Ponyo) is a 2008 animated film by the Japanese anime studio Studio Ghibli, written and directed by famed anime filmmaker Hayao Miyazaki. It is Miyazaki's ninth film for Ghibli. The plot centers on a 5-year-old boy and his relationship with a goldfish princess who longs to become human. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy, Animation, Science Fiction, Family, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 40m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 The Hurt Locker 2008 You'll know when you're in it. Director: Kathryn Bigelow. Cast: Jeremy Renner, Anthony Mackie, Brian Geraghty, Guy Pearce, Ralph Fiennes, David Morse, Evangeline Lilly, Christopher Sayegh, Christian Camargo. Overview: Forced to play a dangerous game of cat-and-mouse in the chaos of war, an elite Army bomb squad unit must come together in a city where everyone is a potential enemy and every object could be a deadly bomb. Genres: Action, Drama, Suspense, Thriller, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Felon 2008 No rule. No hope. No way out. Director: Ric Roman Waugh. Cast: Stephen Dorff, Val Kilmer, Marisol Nichols, Vincent Miller, Anne Archer, Larnell Stovall, Sam Shepard. Overview: A family man convicted of killing an intruder must cope with life afterward in the violent penal system. Genres: Action, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 43m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 The Class 2008 Entre les Murs Director: Laurent Cantet. Cast: François Bégaudeau, Franck Keïta, Esmeralda Ouertani, Rachel Regulier, Wei Huang, Cherif Bounaïdja Rachedi, Louise Grinberg, Rabah Nait Oufella, Carl Nanor, Jean-Michel Simonet, Henriette Kasaruhanda, Laura Baquela. Overview: Teacher and novelist François Bégaudeau plays a version of himself as he negotiates a year with his racially mixed students from a tough Parisian neighborhood. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: France. Runtime: 2h 8m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 The Reader 2008 Director: Stephen Daldry. Cast: Kate Winslet, Ralph Fiennes, Hannah Herzsprung, Alexandra Maria Lara, Bruno Ganz, Karoline Herfurth, David Kross, Volker Bruch, Jeanette Hain, Fabian Busch, Vijessna Ferkic. Overview: Tells the story of Michael Berg, a German lawyer who as a teenager in the late 1950s had an affair with an older woman, Hanna, who then disappeared only to resurface years later as one of the defendants in a war crimes trial stemming from her actions as a concentration camp guard late in the war. He alone realizes that Hanna is illiterate and may be concealing that at the expense of her freedom. Genres: Drama, Romance. Countries: United States of America, Germany. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 Doubt 2008 Director: John Patrick Shanley. Cast: Amy Adams, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Meryl Streep, Viola Davis. Overview: Set in 1964, Doubt centers on a nun who confronts a priest after suspecting him abusing a black student. He denies the charges, and much of the movie's quick-fire dialogue tackles themes of religion, morality and authority. Genres: Drama, Mystery. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 44m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 Kung Fu Panda 2008 Prepare for awesomeness. Directors: Mark Osborne, John Stevenson. Cast: Jack Black, Dustin Hoffman, Angelina Jolie, Jackie Chan, Lucy Liu, David Cross, Randall Duk Kim, James Hong, Dan Fogler, Ian McShane, Seth Rogen, Michael Clarke Duncan. Overview: When the Valley of Peace is threatened, lazy Po the panda discovers his destiny as the "chosen one" and trains to become a kung fu hero, but transforming the unsleek slacker into a brave warrior won't be easy. It's up to Master Shifu and the Furious Five -- Tigress, Crane, Mantis, Viper and Monkey -- to give it a try. Genres: Animation, Family, Comedy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 35m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 I've Loved You So Long 2008 Il y a longtemps que je t'aime Director: Philippe Claudel. Cast: Kristin Scott Thomas, Elsa Zylberstein, Serge Hazanavicius, Claire Johnston, Frédéric Pierrot, Laurent Grévill, Lise Ségur, Jean-Claude Arnaud, Mouss, Souad Mouchrik, Catherine Hosmalin, Olivier Cruveiller, Lily-Rose. Overview: A woman struggles to interact with her family and find her place in society after spending fifteen years in prison. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Horror. Countries: Germany, France. Runtime: 1h 55m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 Hunger 2008 Director: Steve McQueen. Cast: Michael Fassbender, Stuart Graham, Helena Bereen, Liam Cunningham. Overview: The story of Bobby Sands, the IRA member who led the 1981 hunger strike in which Republican prisoners tried to win political status. It dramatises events in the Maze prison in the six weeks prior to Sands’ death. Genres: Crime, Drama, Foreign, Indie. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 30m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Seven Pounds 2008 Seven names. Seven strangers. One secret. Director: Gabriele Muccino. Cast: Rosario Dawson, Sarah Jane Morris, Woody Harrelson, Michael Ealy, Will Smith, Connor Cruise. Overview: An IRS agent with a fateful secret embarks on an extraordinary journey of redemption by forever changing the lives of seven strangers. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 3m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Mesrine: Killer Instinct 2008 Mesrine Killer Instinct Director: Jean-François Richet. Cast: Vincent Cassel, Cécile De France, Gérard Depardieu, Gilles Lellouche. Overview: The early career (1959-’70) of outlaw Jacques Mesrine (Cassel), covering his military service in Algeria, apprenticeship with a Paris gang-lord (Depardieu), crime-spree partnership with soulmate Jeanne (De France) and escape from a tough Canadian prison. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Countries: Canada, France, Italy. Runtime: 1h 53m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 Gangsters Paradise: Jerusalema 2008 Welcome to the promised land. Director: Ralph Ziman. Cast: Daniel Buckland, Robert Hobbs. Overview: This South African movie tracks the rise of a once-petty criminal to the heights of the criminal underworld. After cutting his teeth on hijacking, before moving onto bigger game, an ambitious man hits a setback when most of his gang are shot. Genres: Drama, Action, Crime, Foreign. Runtime: 2h. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 The Wave 2008 Die Welle Director: Dennis Gansel. Cast: Jürgen Vogel, Frederick Lau, Max Riemelt, Jennifer Ulrich, Christiane Paul, Elyas M'Barek, Cristina do Rego, Jacob Matschenz, Maximilian Vollmar, Tim Oliver Schultz, Amelie Kiefer, Max Mauff, Fabian Preger. Overview: A school teacher discusses types of government with his class. His students find it too boring to repeatedly go over national socialism and believe that dictatorship cannot be established in modern Germany. He starts an experiment to show how easily the masses can become manipulated. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: Germany. Runtime: 1h 47m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 Keith 2008 Love is a force you can't control. Director: Todd Kessler. Cast: Jesse McCartney, Elisabeth Harnois, Ignacio Serricchio, Jennifer Grey. Overview: Natalie (Elisabeth Harnois) is high school royalty, but her queen bee status falls apart when she falls for the new guy at school. Although Keith (Jesse McCartney) ignores her at first, they soon become friends -- even though Natalie suspects that Keith has something to hide. As the free-spirited Keith shows Natalie how to embrace what life offers, they grow closer -- until a secret tests the boun.. Genres: Drama, Family, Indie, Romance. Runtime: 1h 33m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Revolutionary Road 2008 Director: Sam Mendes. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate Winslet, Kathy Bates, Ryan Simpkins, Zoe Kazan, Ty Simpkins, Michael Shannon, David Harbour. Overview: A young couple living in a Connecticut suburb during the mid-1950s struggle to come to terms with their personal problems while trying to raise their two children. Based on a novel by Richard Yates. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 Max Manus 2010 Directors: Espen Sandberg, Joachim Rønning. Cast: Aksel Hennie, Agnes Kittelsen, Nicolai Cleve Broch, Knut Joner, Christian Rubeck, Viktoria Winge, Kyrre Haugen Sydness, Eirik Evjen, Jakob Oftebro, Pål Sverre Valheim Hagen, Julia Bache-Wiig, Mats Eldøen, Ken Duken, Petter Næss. Overview: Max Manus is a Norwegian 2008 biographic war film based on the real events of the life of resistance fighter Max Manus (1914–96), after his contribution in the Winter War against the Soviet Union. The story follows Manus – played by Aksel Hennie – through the outbreak of World War II in Norway until peacetime in 1945. Genres: Action, Drama, Foreign, History. Countries: United Kingdom, Norway, Sweden. Runtime: 1h 58m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 Mesrine: Public Enemy #1 2008 L'ennemi public n°1 Director: Jean-François Richet. Cast: Vincent Cassel, Ludivine Sagnier, Mathieu Amalric, Gérard Lanvin. Overview: The story of Jacques Mesrine, France's public enemy No. 1 during the 1970s. After nearly two decades of legendary criminal feats -- from multiple bank robberies and to prison breaks -- Mesrine was gunned down by the French police in Paris. Genres: Crime, Thriller. Countries: Canada, France. Runtime: 2h 13m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 The Bank Job 2008 Director: Roger Donaldson. Cast: Jason Statham, Saffron Burrows, Stephen Campbell Moore, Daniel Mays, James Faulkner, Alki David, Michael Jibson, Richard Lintern, Don Gallagher, David Suchet, Alistair Petrie, Gerard Horan, Peter De Jersey, Georgia Taylor, Hattie Morahan. Overview: Martine offers Terry a lead on a foolproof bank hit on London's Baker Street. She targets a roomful of safe deposit boxes worth millions in cash and jewelry. But Terry and his crew don't realize the boxes also contain a treasure trove of dirty secrets - secrets that will thrust them into a deadly web of corruption and illicit scandal. Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 50m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 The Good, The Bad, The Weird 2008 Director: Ji-woon Kim. Cast: Kang-ho Song, Lee Byung-hun, Woo-sung Jung, Je-mun Yun, Seung-su Ryu, Young-chang Song, Byung-ho Son, Dal-su Oh, Cheong-a Lee, Kwang-il Kim, Dong-seok Ma, Kyeong-hun Jo, Hang-soo Lee, Hyun Joong Kang, Sung-min Lee. Overview: The story of three Korean outlaws in 1930s Manchuria and their dealings with the Japanese army and Chinese and Russian bandits. The Good (a Bounty hunter), the Bad (a hitman), and the Weird (a thief) battle the army and the bandits in a race to use a treasure map to uncover the riches of legend. Genres: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Foreign, Western. Country: Korea. Runtime: 2h 19m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Nothing But the Truth 2008 Director: Rod Lurie. Cast: Kate Beckinsale, Matt Dillon, Angela Bassett, Alan Alda, Preston Bailey, Vera Farmiga, David Schwimmer, Courtney B. Vance, Noah Wyle, Floyd Abrams, Kristen Bough, Merle Dandridge. Overview: In Washington D.C. a female newspaper reporter outs a CIA agent and is imprisoned for refusing to reveal her source. Genres: Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Forgetting Sarah Marshall 2008 You lose some, you get some. Director: Nicholas Stoller. Cast: Jason Segel, Kristen Bell, Mila Kunis, Russell Brand, Bill Hader, Paul Rudd, Jack McBrayer, Jonah Hill, Carla Gallo, Kristen Wiig, William Baldwin, Jason Bateman. Overview: When Sarah Marshall dumps aspiring musician Peter Bretter for rock star Aldous Snow, Peter's world comes crashing down. His best friend suggests that Peter should get away from everything and to fly off to Hawaii to escape all his problems. After arriving in Hawaii and meeting the beautiful Rachel Jansen, Peter is shocked to see not only Aldous Snow in Hawaii, but also Sarah Marshall. Genres: Comedy, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 Red Cliff: Part I 2009 赤壁 The future will be decided. Director: John Woo. Cast: Chang Chen, Tony Leung Chiu-Wai, Takeshi Kaneshiro, Fengyi Zhang, Chiling Lin, Shidô Nakamura, Wei Zhao, Jun Hu, Yong You, Yong Hou, Tong Dawei, Song Jia, Ba Sen Zha Bu, Jinsheng Zang, Zhang Shan. Overview: In the early third century, the land of Wu is invaded by the warlord Cao Cao and his million soldiers. The ruler of Wu, Sun Quan, calls on the rival warlord Liu Bei for help, but their two armies are still badly outnumbered. However, the Wu strategist Zhou Yu sees that Cao Cao's army is unused to battling on the sea, which may just give them a chance if they can exploit this weakness properly. Genres: Adventure, Drama, Action, Foreign. Country: China. Runtime: 2h 30m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 The Baader Meinhof Complex 2008 Der Baader Meinhof Komplex Director: Uli Edel. Cast: Martina Gedeck, Moritz Bleibtreu, Johanna Wokalek, Niels-Bruno Schmidt, Simon Licht, Hannah Herzsprung, Joachim Paul Assböck, Jan Josef Liefers, Susanne Bormann, Alexandra Maria Lara, Nadja Uhl, Volker Bruch, Ben Braun, Jana Honczek, Alexander Müller. Overview: Der Baader Meinhof Komplex depicts the political turmoil in the period from 1967 to the bloody "Deutschen Herbst" in 1977. The movie approaches the events based on Stefan Aust's standard work on Die Rote Armee Fraktion (RAF). The story centers on the leadership of the self named anti-fascist resistance to state violence: Andreas Baader, Ulrike Meinhof and Gudrun Ensslin. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Foreign, History, Thriller. Countries: Germany, France, Czech Republic. Runtime: 2h 30m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 Cloverfield 2008 Some Thing Has Found Us Director: Matt Reeves. Cast: Lizzy Caplan, Jessica Lucas, Odette Yustman, Michael Stahl-David, Mike Vogel, T.J. Miller, Anjul Nigam, Margot Farley, Theo Rossi, Brian Klugman, Kelvin Yu, Liza Lapira, Lili Mirojnick. Overview: Cloverfield revolves around a monster attack in New York and follows the adventure of five people from the perspective of a hand-held video camera, while they try to save a friend and escape. The movie is exactly the length of a DV Tape and a sub-plot is established by showing bits and pieces of video previously recorded on the tape that is being recorded over. Genres: Action, Adventure, Horror, Mystery, Science Fiction, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 25m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 Che: Part One 2008 The Argentine The revolution made him a legend. Director: Steven Soderbergh. Cast: Julia Ormond, Benicio Del Toro, Rodrigo Santoro, Demián Bichir, Ramon Fernandez, María Isabel Díaz, Yul Vazquez, Jose Caro, Pedro Adorno, Jsu Garcia. Overview: The Argentine, begins as Che and a band of Cuban exiles (led by Fidel Castro) reach the Cuban shore from Mexico in 1956. Within two years, they mobilized popular support and an army and toppled the U.S.-friendly regime of dictator Fulgencio Batista.Cuba, 1952 : le général Fulgencio Batista fomente un putsch, s'empare du pouvoir et annule les élections générales. Bravant ce dictateur corrompu, un jeune avocat, Fidel Castro, candidat à la députation sous la bannière du Parti du Peuple, passe à l'action. Dans l'espoir de provoquer un soulèvement populaire, il attaque avec 150 jeunes la caserne de Monaca le 26 juillet 1953. L'opération échoue ; Castro passe deux ans en prison. Genres: Drama, History. Countries: Spain, France, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 6m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 RocknRolla 2008 A story of sex, thugs and rock 'n roll. Director: Guy Ritchie. Cast: Gerard Butler, Toby Kebbell, Tom Hardy, Tom Wilkinson, Matt King, Jimi Mistry, Nonso Anozie, Idris Elba, Charlotte Armer, Gemma Arterton, Jeremy Piven, Thandie Newton, Karel Roden, Mark Strong, Ludacris. Overview: When a Russian mobster sets up a real estate scam that generates millions of pounds, various members of London's criminal underworld pursue their share of the fortune. Various shady characters, including Mr One-Two, Stella the accountant, and Johnny Quid, a druggie rock-star, try to claim their slice. Genres: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Crime, Foreign, Thriller. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 54m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 Vicky Cristina Barcelona 2008 Life is the ultimate work of art Director: Woody Allen. Cast: Scarlett Johansson, Rebecca Hall, Javier Bardem, Penélope Cruz, Christopher Evan Welch, Chris Messina, Patricia Clarkson, Kevin Dunn, Julio Perillán, Juan Queseda, Ricard Salom, Maurice Sonnenberg, Manel Barceló, Josep Maria Domènech, Emilio de Benito. Overview: Two girlfriends on a summer holiday in Spain become enamored with the same painter, unaware that his ex-wife, with whom he has a tempestuous relationship, is about to re-enter the picture. Genres: Drama, Romance. Countries: Spain, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Definitely, Maybe 2008 Director: Adam Brooks. Cast: Ryan Reynolds, Abigail Breslin, Elizabeth Banks, Isla Fisher, Rachel Weisz, Kevin Kline, Derek Luke, Liane Balaban, Annie Parisse, Nestor Serrano, Kevin Corrigan. Overview: When Will decides to tell his daughter the story of how he met her mother, he discovers that a second look at the past might also give him a second chance at the future. Genres: Comedy, Romance. Countries: France, United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 JCVD 2008 The Biggest Fight of His Life! Director: Mabrouk El Mechri. Cast: Jean-Claude Van Damme, François Damiens, Zinedine Soualem, Karim Belkhadra, Jean-François Wolff, Anne Paulicevich. Overview: Between his tax problems and his legal battle with his wife for the custody of his daughter, these are hard times for the action movie star who finds that even Steven Seagal has pinched a role from him! Jean-Claude Van Damme returns to the country of his birth to seek the peace and tranquility he can no longer enjoy in the United States. Genres: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Indie. Countries: Belgium, France, Luxembourg. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 Synecdoche, New York 2008 Director: Charlie Kaufman. Cast: Philip Seymour Hoffman, Samantha Morton, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Michelle Williams, Catherine Keener. Overview: A theater director struggles with his work, and the women in his life, as he attempts to create a life-size replica of New York inside a warehouse as part of his new play. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 Hellboy II: The Golden Army 2008 Saving the world is a hell of a job. Director: Guillermo del Toro. Cast: Ron Perlman, Selma Blair, Jeffrey Tambor, Doug Jones, John Hurt, Luke Goss, John Alexander, James Dodd, Seth MacFarlane, Anna Walton, Brian Steele. Overview: In this continuation to the adventure of the demon superhero, an evil elf breaks an ancient pact between humans and creatures, as he declares war against humanity. He is on a mission to release The Golden Army, a deadly group of fighting machines that can destroy the human race. As Hell on Earth is ready to erupt, Hellboy and his crew set out to defeat the evil prince. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: Germany, United States of America. Runtime: 2h. Rated: PG-13. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
