#ThisURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences/Microbiology_and_Immunology/Bacteriology.html
http://study.com/articles/Biomedical_Sciences_Masters_Degree_Program_Information.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences/Zoology/Animal_Physiology.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences/Microbiology_and_Immunology.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Biological and Biomedical Sciences
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Biological and Biomedical Sciences Bioinformatics Botany Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Subject Categories  /  Biological and Biomedical Sciences Biological and Biomedical Sciences Bioinformatics Bioinformatics Biometrics, Biostatistics, Biotechnology, General... View All Botany Botany Plant Molecular Biology, Plant Pathology, Plant Physiology... View All Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Anatomy, Cellular and Molecular Biology, Cellular Biology and Histology... View All Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Aquatic Biology, Conservation Biology, Ecology... View All General Biology General Biology Biotechnology Lab Technician, Science Technologies... View All Genetics Genetics Animal Genetics, Human Genetics, Molecular Genetics... View All Microbiology and Immunology Microbiology and Immunology Bacteriology, Immunology, Microbiology... View All Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Biochemistry, Biophysics, Molecular Biochemistry... View All Pharmacology and Toxicology Pharmacology and Toxicology Environmental Toxicology, Molecular Pharmacology, Molecular Toxicology... View All Physiology and Related Sciences Physiology and Related Sciences Cardiovascular Science, Cell Physiology, Endocrinology... View All Zoology Zoology Animal Behavior, Animal Physiology, Entomology... View All Biological and biomedical research careers allow someone to be involved in scientific work that will improve human health. Graduate degrees are needed for the most advanced and creative positions in biological sciences. Inside Biological and Biomedical Sciences The field of biological and biomedical sciences encompasses the study of biological chemistry, molecular pharmacology, cancer and cell biology, developmental and regenerative biology, genetics, genomics, microbiology and immunology. If you are interested in pursuing a future in the biological and biomedical sciences, you can explore potential degree, distance learning and career options that may suit your goals. Study.com provides a number of resources that can help you achieve your personal and professional aspirations in this field. Education Information Degree programs are available at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Undergraduate students can expect to take classes in mathematics for biotechnology, anatomy, chemistry, physics, as well as courses that involve hands-on laboratory work or field research. The types of advanced courses in a graduate degree program depend heavily upon a student's chosen area of focus. Potential courses include molecular genetics, immunogenetics, animal virology, mechanisms of pathogenesis and pharmacoeconomics. Joint degree programs are also available, such as a joint medical degree (M.D.) with a doctorate degree (Ph.D.) in a field of the biological and biomedical sciences, such as immunology. Here are a few educational paths for your consideration. Bachelor's Degree in Biological Science Bachelor's Degree in Biomedical Sciences Master's Program in the Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. Program in the Biomedical Sciences Ph.D. Program in Biological Science Distance Learning Options You can begin studying the biological and biomedical sciences immediately through distance learning degree programs and courses online. See if these options are of interest for you. Check out the links below. Associate's Degree in Biology Associate's Degree in Biomedical Engineering Technology Master's Degree in Biology Career Options Careers in this field include positions in clinical medicine, biological and biomedical engineering, biomedical research and academia. Here are a few links to articles offering more details about employment options in biological and biomedical sciences. Job Options in the Biomedical Sciences Biological Science Technician Biomedical Scientist Biomedical Technologies Employment Outlook and Salary Information According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), biochemists and biophysicists were expected to experience a growth of 19 percent from 2012-2022, which was faster than the average rate of growth for other occupations (www.bls.gov). The BLS also noted that employment of biomedical engineers was predicted to rise at a much-faster-than-average rate, specifically 27 percent over the decade. This growth could be attributed to biotechnological research and development. Additionally, in May 2013 the BLS noted that biochemists and biophysicists earned a mean annual wage of $91,640. According to data compiled by Payscale.com in April 2014, most biomedical engineers reported earning base salaries from $43,429-$92,399. Read more Biological and Biomedical Sciences Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Biomedical Sciences: Job Options, Duties and Requirements Degrees in biomedical science include many areas that apply science to medicine. Find out about the curricula of these programs, and... Top Schools for Biological and Biomedical Science Find out which top schools offer degrees in biological and biomedical science. Read about the program options at two leading... Biomedical Sciences Master's Degree Program Information Graduate biomedical science degree programs are typically designed to expand on undergraduate science majors and prepare students to... Biomedical Graduate Program Biomedical Training CA Requirement Biomedical Training Biomedical Degree Biomedical Certification How to Choose a Bioengineering School Biological Technology Training, Certificate and Diploma Programs Bachelor of Web Design and Multimedia: Online Degree Find out about online web design and multimedia courses and in which degree programs they're most commonly offered. Get course descriptions,... Online Court Reporting Associate's Degree Program Information Get info about online associate's degree programs in court reporting. Read about program requirements, course topics and degree levels, as... Online PhD Programs in Sociology: Degree Overview Online PHD Programs: An Overview of Common PHD Programs Offered Online Become a Certified Interior Decorator (CID): Step-by-Step Guide Furniture and Cabinet Maker: Online Diploma How to Become a Certified Scrub Technician Medical Insurance Technician Certificate Program Summary In addition to technical training and instruction, students enrolled in Medical Insurance Technician Certificate programs will be offered... Second Degree Bsn There are many degree options for aspiring nurses. Registered nurses (RNs) who have already earned an associate degree can apply credits... Distance Learning Nutrition Degree Program Bachelor of Science in Information Assurance Program Info Sports Management Undergraduate Associate of Science AS Interactive Media Degree Overview Bachelor of Information Technology BIT Degree Overview Biological and Biomedical Sciences Related Videos Biology Professions Video: Career Options in the Biological Sciences University of Texas Video Review Texas A&M University Video Review Brandeis University in Waltham, MA Video Review Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS Health Science Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Arts in Health Care Administration Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ph.D. in Health Services - Health Care Administration (Course-Based) Doctor of Nursing Practice - General Ph.D. in Health Services - Leadership (Course-Based) Master MS in Clinical Research Administration - General Master of Healthcare Administration - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 4Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5CDI College School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older or have graduated high school School locations: (1 campus) Program Info Classroom-Based Programs Non-Degree Diploma in Medical Laboratory Assistant Get Started with CDI College What year did you graduate high school? Select One... No high school - I am 19 or older 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 6San Francisco State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Francisco State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Get Started with San Francisco State University Research San Francisco State University's Programs & Degrees 7Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Certificate - Anatomy & Physiology Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 8San Jose State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Jose State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Microbiology and Immunology Get Started with San Jose State University Research San Jose State University's Programs 9Stanford University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Stanford University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Get Started with Stanford University Research Stanford University's Degree Programs 10Harvard University School Info School locations: Massachusetts (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Harvard University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Bioinformatics Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Physiology and Related Sciences Get Started with Harvard University Research Harvard University's Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Bioinformatics Botany Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University BS Health Science What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Ashford University Master of Arts in Health Care Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Walden University Ph.D. in Health Services - Health Care Administration (Course-Based) Doctor of Nursing Practice - General Ph.D. in Health Services - Leadership (Course-Based) MS in Clinical Research Administration - General Master of Healthcare Administration - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 4 Grand Canyon University BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 CDI College Diploma in Medical Laboratory Assistant What year did you graduate high school? Select One... No high school - I am 19 or older 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 6 San Francisco State University 7 Penn Foster Career School Certificate - Anatomy & Physiology What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 8 San Jose State University 9 Stanford University 10 Harvard University Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
