#ThisURL#
http://study.com/psychologist_education.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/schooling_for_a_psychologist.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Psychology/Psychology_and_Human_Behavior/Behavioral_Sciences%2C_General.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/Sports_Manager_Job_Description_Duties_and_Requirements.html
http://study.com/articles/Store_Manager_Job_Description_Duties_and_Requirements.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Psychologist Education and Career Overview
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Psychology  /  Psychology and Human Behavior  /  Psychology, General Psychology Psychology and Human Behavior Behavioral Sciences, General Biopsychology Clinical Psychology, General Cognitive Psychology and Psycholinguistics Cognitive Science Community Psychology Comparitive Psychology Counseling Psychology, General Environmental Psychology Experimental Psychology Family Psychology Forensic Psychology, General Industrial and Organizational Psychology Medical Psychology Personality Psychology Physiological Psychology Psychometrics and Quantitative Psychology Social Psychology Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Psychology, General  /  Psychologist Education and Career Overview Psychologist Education and Career Overview Psychologists require a significant amount of formal education. Learn about the education, job duties, and certification requirements to see if this is the right career for you. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information Psychologists determine clients' behavioral patterns and develop ways to work through emotional or cognitive issues. Each field of psychology has many different specialties with their own educational requirements. All clinical psychologists must be licensed or certified and have obtained a doctoral degree. Required Education Doctoral degree (Ph.D or Psy.D) for clinical psychologists Other Requirements State licensure; specialty certification available Projected Job Growth (2012-2022)* 12% (all psychologists) Average Salary (2013)* $72,710 (clinical, counseling and school psychologists) Source:*U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Educational Requirements for Psychologists In order to qualify for a career as a psychologist, a person must have at least a master's degree. However, those with a Master of Arts (MA) in Psychology may face limited options for specialization. Students who hold an MA may qualify for jobs as industrial-organizational psychologists. Alternatively, an individual with a master's degree can work as an assistant for a psychologist who practices in a specialized field of study. People who have obtained a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) or Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) can become self-employed psychologists or obtain clinical, research, experimental and counseling positions. Psychologists with doctoral degrees may also perform administrative duties or train others to become psychologists. Although graduates of a master's program may be hired as school psychologists, an Education Specialist (EdS) degree with a focus on school psychology is the usual requirement for entering the field. Due to the nature of a school psychologist's work, the curriculum is typically geared towards both the fundamentals of education and the nature of psychology. A graduate degree program in psychology is highly competitive, and most schools require applicants to have at least a bachelor's degree in psychology. After graduation, all clinical psychologists must seek licensure or certification at either the state or national level before they can practice in the United States. Career Overview Psychologists work to understand patterns of behavior through observation of trends and experimentation. They use this understanding to promote behavioral development, find solutions to emotional problems and to help people learn. Methods commonly used by psychologists include lab studies using controlled groups of people, personal interviewing and discussions, hypnotherapy, administering assessment tests, performing psychotherapy or simply observing another's behavior in a natural setting. There are many specialty fields for psychologists. For instance, clinical psychologists diagnose and treat mental disorders. Research psychologists work in lab settings to determine what factors affect behavioral patterns in humans and animals. School psychologists aid students through their school career and diagnose special educational needs. Industrial-organizational psychologists aid workers through training and counseling to improve the quality of work. Psychologists can either be self-employed or work for an organization. In either case, psychologists must be accommodating towards their clients and possess strong interpersonal skills, in addition to having an understanding of the basic tenets of psychology and the place for which they work. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Psychologist Certification RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Psychiatric Professions Video: Career Options in the Psychiatry Field Criminal Psychology Professions Video: Educational Requirements and Career Options What Are the Education Requirements for Becoming a Psychologist Education Need to Become a Psychologist Education Psychologist Degree Schooling for a Psychologist How Do You Become a Psychologist Military Psychologist: Job Duties and Education Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a military psychologist. Get a quick view of the requirements as... Become a Military Psychologist: Education and Career Roadmap Research the requirements to become a military psychologist. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the... Chief Psychologist: Job Duties and Education Requirements Chief psychologists require a significant amount of formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and licensure... Personality Psychologist: Job Description and Education Information A career as a personality psychologist requires significant formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and... Become an Assistant Psychologist: Education and Career Roadmap Psychologist Child Psychologist Psychologist Vs. Psychiatrist: What's the Difference? Motivational Psychologist: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Counseling Psychologist: Career Options and Education Requirements How to Become a Treasury Analyst in the U.S. El Paso Careers: Overview of Hot Careers in El Paso, Texas Sports Manager: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Video Game Programmer: Career Info for Becoming a Video Game Programmer Become a Criminal Psychologist: Education and Career Roadmap Become a Cognitive Psychologist: Education and Career Information A High School Diploma V. the GED Store Manager: Job Description, Duties and Requirements How To Avoid Common Writing Mistakes Top School for CAD Design Training - Troy MI Top Ranked School for a Degree in Visual Communication and Multimedia - Troy MI Nonfarm Animal Caretaker Top Computer Networking University - Jacksonville FL Top Business School - Birmingham AL 40 Places for College Students to Find Free Unabridged Books Online Eeg Tech Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Psychology MS in Psychology - Industrial Organizational Psychology MS in Psychology - Child and Developmental Psychology Bachelor BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA in Psychology - Mental Health BA in Psychology - Addictions BA in Psychology - Social Psychology BS in Industrial & Organizational Psychology Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA-Psychology Bachelor BA in Psychology Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Performance Psychology Master M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MS in Psychology: General Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Health Psychology MS in Psychology: Industrial & Organizational Psychology MS in Christian Counseling Bachelor BS in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Family Dynamics Non-Degree Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ph.D. in Psychology - General Ph.D. in Psychology - Clinical Psychology Ph.D. in Psychology - Social Psychology Ph.D. in Psychology - Educational Psychology DSW - Disaster, Crisis and Intervention Ph.D. in Social Work-Disaster, Crisis, and Intervention Master M.S. in Industrial and Organizational Psychology - General Practice MS in Psychology - General MS in Psychology - Educational Psychology MS in Psychology - Social Psychology MS in Clinical Psychology - General MS in Psychology - Applied Psychology Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Industrial/Organization Psychology Bachelor BS in Psychology Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 6Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate PhD in Psychology - Gender Diversity Studies PhD in Psychology - General Psychology PhD in Psychology - Industrial Organizational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology - Addictions Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology - Therapy with Military Families PhD in Psychology - Health Psychology Master MA in Psychology - General Psychology MA in Psychology - Industrial Organizational Psychology MA in Psychology - Gender Diversity Studies MA in Psychology - Health Psychology Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Business Psychology Master Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Non-Profit Management Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 8Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice - Behavior Analysis Non-Degree Certificate in Behavior Analysis Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 9Stanford University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Stanford University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Psychology Psychology and Human Behavior Cognitive Science Psychology, General Get Started with Stanford University Research Stanford University's Degree Programs 10San Francisco State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Francisco State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Psychology Developmental Psychology Psychology and Human Behavior Behavioral Sciences, General Psychology, General Get Started with San Francisco State University Research San Francisco State University's Programs & Degrees Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Developmental Psychology Psychology and Human Behavior School Psychology Select your specialty subject area Behavioral Sciences, General Biopsychology Clinical Psychology, General Cognitive Psychology and Psycholinguistics Cognitive Science Community Psychology Comparitive Psychology Counseling Psychology, General Environmental Psychology Experimental Psychology Family Psychology Forensic Psychology, General Industrial and Organizational Psychology Medical Psychology Personality Psychology Physiological Psychology Psychology, General Psychometrics and Quantitative Psychology Social Psychology What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Psychology MS in Psychology - Industrial Organizational Psychology MS in Psychology - Child and Developmental Psychology BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA in Psychology - Mental Health BA in Psychology - Addictions BA in Psychology - Social Psychology BS in Industrial & Organizational Psychology View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Ashford University MA-Psychology BA in Psychology What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Grand Canyon University Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Performance Psychology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MS in Psychology: General Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Health Psychology MS in Psychology: Industrial & Organizational Psychology MS in Christian Counseling BS in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Family Dynamics Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Walden University Ph.D. in Psychology - General Ph.D. in Psychology - Clinical Psychology Ph.D. in Psychology - Social Psychology Ph.D. in Psychology - Educational Psychology DSW - Disaster, Crisis and Intervention Ph.D. in Social Work-Disaster, Crisis, and Intervention M.S. in Industrial and Organizational Psychology - General Practice MS in Psychology - General MS in Psychology - Educational Psychology MS in Psychology - Social Psychology MS in Clinical Psychology - General MS in Psychology - Applied Psychology View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5 Baker College Online MS in Industrial/Organization Psychology BS in Psychology When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Northcentral University PhD in Psychology - Gender Diversity Studies PhD in Psychology - General Psychology PhD in Psychology - Industrial Organizational Psychology Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology - Addictions Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology - Therapy with Military Families PhD in Psychology - Health Psychology MA in Psychology - General Psychology MA in Psychology - Industrial Organizational Psychology MA in Psychology - Gender Diversity Studies MA in Psychology - Health Psychology View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7 University of the Rockies Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Business Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Non-Profit Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 8 Saint Joseph's University MS in Criminal Justice - Behavior Analysis Certificate in Behavior Analysis During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 9 Stanford University 10 San Francisco State University Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
