#ThisURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Social_Studies_and_History/Public_History_and_Archival_Administration.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/top_colleges_for_a_history_major.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_an_Information_Technology_IT_Specialist.html
http://study.com/public_administration_degree_in_new_jersey.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Social_Studies_and_History/Public_History_and_Archival_Administration.html
http://study.com/articles/Archivist_Degree_Certification_and_Training_Program_Overviews.html
http://study.com/articles/Is_Studying_History_Still_Important.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Public History and Archival Administration
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Social Studies and History  /  Public History and Archival Administration Liberal Arts and Humanities Social Studies and History American History Ancient Studies Asian History Classical Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies Cultural Resource Management European History Historic Preservation History of Science and Technology Holocaust Studies Medieval and Renaissance Studies Museum Studies Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Social Studies and History  /  Public History and Archival... Public History and Archival Administration Individuals wishing to work in public history or archival administration generally need a graduate degree in library and information science or public history. Read on to learn about some of the educational and vocational options available in this field. Inside Public History and Archival Administration Public history and archival administration professionals are typically charged with preserving and displaying historical records in such a way that allows people to engage with these artifacts without damaging them. Public historians typically become experts within a specific historical area or time period in correlation with the public records from that era. Archival administrators learn basic library sciences techniques in addition to specific skills pertaining to the handling and preservation of very old documents and artifacts, as well as cutting-edge techniques for storing and retrieving digital information. Education Information The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reported that archivists generally receive a master's degree in library sciences, often with a concentration in an archival specialty, such as archival administration (www.bls.gov). According to the Society of American Archivists, most positions require a graduate degree, with employment in academia often requiring a Ph.D. (www2.archivists.org). For those seeking employment as curators, the BLS recommends a master's degree in the area of the museum's focus, such as history. Public historians generally receive graduate degrees in history with a concentration or certificate in public history, although a few master's degree programs specifically in public history do exist. The following articles outline a few relevant educational options: Library Studies Certificate and Degrees Records Management Degrees Archivist Degrees Graduate Degrees in History Distance Learning Options There are opportunities available for would-be public historians and archival administrators to get the education they need through distance learning programs. Review the links below for more information about online programs of study. Online Library Science Degree Online Bachelor's Degree in History Online Master's Degree in History Online Ph.D. in History Career Options Trained public historians and archival administrators work in a range of different roles that deal with the preservation of historical information. Professionals in these areas typically work in museums, archives or academia. Here are a few examples of the career options for those with training in this field. Cultural Resource Manager Archivist Genealogy Studies Professional Assistant Curator Employment Outlook and Salary Information The BLS projected an employment increase of 11 percent for archivists, curators and museum technicians between 2012 and 2022. However, employment growth for historians would only be 6 percent during this same time period, which reflects the tight job market in this area. As of May 2013, the BLS reported that the average annual salary for curators was $55,620, while archivists earned $52,670. Historians had an average salary of $60,010, with those working in the federal government earning $89,370 per year. Read more Public History and Archival Administration Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Celebrating Public Radio Day: The History of Public Radio Happy Public Radio Day! What better way to commemorate this day than a little history? Keep reading to learn a little bit more about this... Celebrating Deaf History Month Since 1988, March 13 - April 15 has marked the celebration of Deaf History Month in the United States. The bounding dates on both sides... 10 Great Study Abroad Locations for History Students Studying abroad provides students with the opportunity to explore the world. It can be especially beneficial to those in history... Graduate Programs History Public Administration Degree in New Jersey Graduate Schools and Public Administration Top Colleges for a History Major Public Administration Degree in North Carolina Do Schools Really Need to Teach History? Is Studying History Still Important? Online PHP Training and Education Programs Research online PHP courses and programs. Find out what you can learn in these courses and what you'll need in order to participate in... How to Become a Video Game Designer: Education and Career Roadmap Learn how to become a video game designer. Research the education requirements, training information and experience required for starting a... Online Radiology Certification and Certificate Info Online Professional Writing Certificate Program Overviews Yoga Teacher Training Via Distance Education How to Become an Information Technology (IT) Specialist Become a 911 Dispatcher: Education Requirements and Salary Info Top University with Computer Drafting and Design Degrees - Oklahoma City OK Oklahoma City, OK, has a few schools with computer drafting degree programs. Find the best program for you by reading about one school's... Social Worker Schooling Social workers require a significant amount of formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and licensure requirements to see... Dental Hygienist Alabama International Business Degree Top School for International Business - Raleigh NC Barber Schools in Michigan Cooking Classes Top Rated School for the Culinary Arts - Louisville KY Top Rated School for Becoming a Medical Insurance Billing and Coding Professional - Baltimore MD Public History and Archival Administration Related Videos Academic and Career Options for History Majors Video Princeton University in New Jersey Video Review Duke University in Durham, NC Video Review University of Indiana Video Review Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA in History MA in History - American History MA in History - Public History MA in History - Military History Bachelor BA in History - American History BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Military History BA in History - Middle Eastern History BA General Studies Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in History Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of General Studies Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 5Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 6Norwich University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Arts in History Online Master of Arts in Military History Online Get Started with Norwich University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 7Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Professional and Liberal Studies Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8Western Washington University School Info School locations: Washington (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Western Washington University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Public History and Archival Administration Get Started with Western Washington University Research Western Washington University's Degree Programs 9Wayne State University School Info School locations: Michigan (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Wayne State University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Post Master's Certificate, Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Public History and Archival Administration Get Started with Wayne State University Research Wayne State University's Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Select your specialty subject area American History Ancient Studies Asian History Classical Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies Cultural Resource Management European History Historic Preservation History of Science and Technology Holocaust Studies Medieval and Renaissance Studies Museum Studies Public History and Archival Administration What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 9 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University MA in History MA in History - American History MA in History - Public History MA in History - Military History BA in History - American History BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Military History BA in History - Middle Eastern History BA General Studies View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Ashford University BA in History What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Grand Canyon University Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Baker College Online Bachelor of General Studies When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 5 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 6 Norwich University Master of Arts in History Online Master of Arts in Military History Online What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 7 Saint Joseph's University BS in Professional and Liberal Studies During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8 Western Washington University 9 Wayne State University Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
