#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-ballad-definition-examples-quiz.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-ballad-definition-examples-quiz.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-ballad-poem-definition-structure-examples.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/understand-how-authors-use-source-material-ccssela-literacyrl89.html
http://study.com/academy/practice/quiz-worksheet-characteristics-of-ballads.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/literature-lessons-for-grade-8-ccssela-literacyrl811.html
http://study.com/academy/login.html?cta=bumper
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-ballad-definition-examples-quiz.html&width=100&
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
What is a Ballad? - Definition & Examples - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: What is a Ballad? - Definition & Examples Let's learn about the poetical form of the ballad and examine two of the most famous English ballads. We will learn about the common traits of ballads and how they relate to modern music.  Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Literature: Standards  /  English Courses Course Navigator What is a Ballad? - Definition & Examples Chapter 9 /  Lesson 14   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Characteristics of Ballads Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: 0:00 Ballad Defined 1:11 Coleridge 2:22 Wordsworth 3:38 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 55,848 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses Lyric Poetry: Definition, Types & Examples Metaphysical Poetry: Definition, Characteristics & Examples Poetic Devices: Definition, Types & Examples Dramatic Monologue: Definition & Examples Epic Poetry: Definition, Heroes & Stories What is a Ballad Poem? - Definition, Structure & Examples What is a Preposition? - Definition, Uses & Examples What is a Rhyme Scheme? - Definition & Examples Figure of Speech: Definition, Types & Examples What is Rhythm in Poetry? - Definition & Examples Petrarchan Sonnet: Rhyme Scheme, Format & Example Poems Elements of Drama: Characters, Plot, Setting & Symbolism Literary Genres: Definition, Types, Characteristics & Examples What is Theme in Literature? - Definition & Examples What is Symbolism in Literature? - Definition, Types & Examples Shakespeare's Sonnet 18: Summary, Theme & Analysis Poems with ABAB Rhyme Scheme: Examples & Definition Iambic Pentameter: Definition & Examples Introduction to Victorian Literature: Overview of Themes, Style, and Authors Pastoral Poems: Definition & Examples 8th Grade Language Arts: Lessons & Help 6th Grade Language Arts: Lessons & Help 7th Grade Language Arts: Lessons & Help 11th Grade English: Homeschool Curriculum Common Core ELA Grade 7 - Writing: Standards TACHS: Practice & Study Guide Middle School Language Arts: Lessons & Help English 102: American Literature English 104: College Composition English 103: Analyzing and Interpreting Literature AP English Literature: Help and Review 11th Grade English: Help and Review AP English Literature: Homework Help Resource Smarter Balanced Assessments - ELA Grades 6-8: Test Prep & Practice 11th Grade English: Tutoring Solution AP English Literature: Tutoring Solution 9th Grade English: Tutoring Solution 11th Grade English: Homework Help Resource ACT Prep: Tutoring Solution SAT Prep: Tutoring Solution Lesson Transcript Instructor: Michelle Herrin Michelle has taught high school and college English and has master's degrees in eduation and liberal studies. Let's learn about the poetical form of the ballad and examine two of the most famous English ballads. We will learn about the common traits of ballads and how they relate to modern music. Definition A ballad is a type of poem that is sometimes set to music. Ballads have a long history and are found in many cultures. The ballad actually began as a folk song and continues today in popular music. Many love songs today can be considered ballads. A typical ballad consists of stanzas that contain a quatrain, or four poetic lines. The meter or rhythm of each line is usually iambic, which means it has one unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable. In ballads, there are usually eight or six syllables in a line. Like any poem, some ballads follow this form and some don't, but almost all ballads are narrative, which means they tell a story. Because the ballad was originally set to music, some ballads have a refrain, or a repeated chorus, just like a song does. Similarly, the rhyme scheme is often ABAB because of the musical quality of this rhyme pattern. While ballads have always been popular, it was during the Romantic movement of poetry in the late 18th century that the ballad had a resurgence and became a popular form. Many famous romantic poets, like William Wordsworth, wrote in the ballad form. Coleridge One famous ballad is The Rime of the Ancient Mariner by English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge. It was written in 1797 and is the story of a sailor who has returned from a long voyage. Let's look at a couple of the poem's stanzas, or groups of lines, and discuss why this poem is a ballad. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner begins with the sailor telling his story to a stranger, called the Wedding-Guest, who is on his way to a wedding. The sailor says: The ship was cheered, the harbour cleared, Merrily did we drop Below the kirk, below the hill, Below the lighthouse top. The Sun came up upon the left, Out of the sea came he! And he shone bright, and on the right Went down into the sea. In the first stanza, the sailor talks about how the ship set off and began its journey. In the second stanza, it continues the journey as the sun sets and rises. Here, the sailor is telling us a story about what happened at sea, so this is a narrative. The poem is also arranged in quatrains, which are four-line stanzas. The rhyme scheme is also ABAB. Can you hear the song-like quality in these lines? Wordsworth Strange fits of passion have I known is a ballad written by English poet William Wordsworth. It was written in 1798 and is a story about a young man going to meet his lover. Let's look at a few stanzas of it and discuss why it is a ballad. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Strange fits of passion have I known: And I will dare to tell, But in the lover's ear alone, What once to me befell. When she I loved looked every day Fresh as a rose in June, I to her cottage bent my way, Beneath an evening-moon. Upon the moon I fixed my eye, All over the wide lea; With quickening pace my horse drew nigh Those paths so dear to me. In the first stanza, the speaker tells us that he is going to tell us a story about what happened. In the next stanza, he says that he is going to meet a woman who 'looked every day//Fresh as a rose in June.' In the third stanza, he says that, as he walked, he got excited and began to hurry to her house. So why is this a ballad? First, like The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, Strange fits of passion I have known is arranged in quatrains of four lines. It also has the rhyme scheme of ABAB. Finally, it also tells a story, which means it is a narrative. Lesson Summary The ballad is a poem that is typically arranged in quatrains with the rhyme scheme ABAB. Ballads are usually narrative, which means they tell a story. Ballads began as folk songs and continue to be used today in modern music. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Literature: Standards page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 12: Exit Interview with Lecturer John Crooks Diary of an OCW Music Student: Final Thoughts Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 10: Temperaments, Roots of 2 and Conclusions Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 9: A 12-Tone Pythagorean Set Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 8: Tuning with Pure Major and Minor Triads Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 7: The Minor Triad and a Circular System of Thirds Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 6: Pythagorean Tuning and the Pure Triad Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 5: Building a Diatonic Set Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 4: Circular Pitch Systems and the Triad Diary of an OCW Music Student, Week 3: Octave Equivalence, Circular Pitch Systems and the Major Triad Should I Major in Environmental Science? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Restaurant Server: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Online Civil Engineering Diploma and Certificate Programs Consumer Psychology Training and Degree Program Info Bachelor of Science BS Health Care Management Degree Overview Aeronautical Technician Degree Business Marketing Vocational School Aeronautical Maintenance Technology Certificate Program Summary × Course Navigator  Back To Course Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Literature: Standards 9 chapters | 60 lessons 1 - Cite Textual Evidence: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.1 Go to Cite Textual Evidence: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.1 2 - Analyze Themes: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.2 Go to Analyze Themes: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.2 3 - Analyze Dialogue: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.3 Go to Analyze Dialogue: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.3 4 - Analyze Word Choice: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.4 Go to Analyze Word Choice: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.4 5 - Analyze Structure of a Text: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.5 Go to Analyze Structure of a Text: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.5 6 - Analyze Point of View: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.6 Go to Analyze Point of View: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.6 7 - Analyze Elements in Different Artistic Mediums:... Go to Analyze Elements in Different Artistic Mediums: CCSS.CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.7 8 - How Authors Use Source Materials:... Go to How Authors Use Source Materials: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.9 9 - Literature Lessons for Grade 8:... The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Themes and Analysis 8:44 The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Plot Summary and Characters 11:06 Langston Hughes & the Harlem Renaissance: Poems of the Jazz Age 6:59 Walt Whitman: Transcendental and Realist Poet 4:59 Walt Whitman's Poetry and Transcendentalism 6:15 Emily Dickinson: Poems and Poetry Analysis 7:20 Henry Wadsworth Longfellow: Poem Analysis 5:27 Jonathan Swift and Satire: Examples and Analysis 12:27 Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift: Satire, Parody, and Folly 7:25 A Modest Proposal by Jonathan Swift: Satire and Social Commentary 6:42 Robinson Crusoe: Summary and Themes 10:11 Of Mice and Men: Summary and Analysis of Steinbeck's Style 6:42 Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven: Summary and Analysis 10:50 What is a Ballad? - Definition & Examples 3:58 Go to Literature Lessons for Grade 8: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.10 Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
