#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Action Movies to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Action Movies Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy In action movies the action hero is called upon to demonstrate courage, initiative and physical endurance, ultimately triumphing over what are typically cast as impossible odds. All accompanied with explosions, chases, fights and gunplay. Watch best action movies of all time! Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 Inception 2010 Your mind is the scene of the crime. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Marion Cotillard, Ken Watanabe, Michael Caine, Tom Hardy, Cillian Murphy, Tom Berenger, Lukas Haas, Dileep Rao. Overview: Dom Cobb is a skilled thief, the absolute best in the dangerous art of extraction, stealing valuable secrets from deep within the subconscious during the dream state, when the mind is at its most vulnerable. Cobb's rare ability has made him a coveted player in this treacherous new world of corporate espionage, but it has also made him an international fugitive and cost him everything he has ever loved. Now Cobb is being offered a chance at redemption. One last job could give him his life back but only if he can accomplish the impossible - inception. Instead of the perfect heist, Cobb and his team of specialists have to pull off the reverse: their task is not to steal an idea but to plant one. If they succeed, it could be the perfect crime. But no amount of careful planning or expertise can prepare the team for the dangerous enemy that seems to predict their every move. An enemy that only Cobb could have seen coming. Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 28m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 The Dark Knight 2008 Why So Serious? Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Christian Bale, Heath Ledger, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Aaron Eckhart, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, Michael Caine, Eric Roberts, Michael Jai White, James Smith, Monique Gabriela Curnen, Ron Dean, Cillian Murphy, Chin Han, Ritchie Coster. Overview: Batman raises the stakes in his war on crime. With the help of Lt. Jim Gordon and District Attorney Harvey Dent, Batman sets out to dismantle the remaining criminal organizations that plague the streets. The partnership proves to be effective, but they soon find themselves prey to a reign of chaos unleashed by a rising criminal mastermind known to the terrified citizens of Gotham as the Joker. Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Fantasy, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 32m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back 1980 The Adventure Continues... Director: Irvin Kershner. Cast: Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, David Prowse, Billy Dee Williams, Anthony Daniels, Peter Mayhew, James Earl Jones, Kenny Baker, Frank Oz, Alec Guinness, Jeremy Bulloch, John Hollis, Jack Purvis, Des Webb. Overview: The epic saga continues as Luke Skywalker, in hopes of defeating the evil Galactic Empire, learns the ways of the Jedi from aging master Yoda. But Darth Vader is more determined than ever to capture Luke. Meanwhile, rebel leader Princess Leia, cocky Han Solo, Chewbacca, and droids C-3PO and R2-D2 are thrown into various stages of capture, betrayal and despair. Genres: Action, Family, Fantasy, Science Fiction, Adventure. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King 2003 The eye of the enemy is moving. Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Orlando Bloom, John Rhys-Davies, Sean Astin, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Hugo Weaving, Bernard Hill, Andy Serkis, Miranda Otto, David Wenham, Karl Urban. Overview: Aragorn is revealed as the heir to the ancient kings as he, Gandalf and the other members of the broken fellowship struggle to save Gondor from Sauron's forces. Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam bring the ring closer to the heart of Mordor, the dark lord's realm. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 21m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 Star Wars: Episode IV: A New Hope 1977 A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away... Director: George Lucas. Cast: Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, Harrison Ford, Peter Cushing, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, Alec Guinness, Peter Mayhew, David Prowse, James Earl Jones, Phil Brown, Shelagh Fraser, Roger Lloyd-Pack. Overview: Princess Leia is captured and held hostage by the evil Imperial forces in their effort to take over the galactic Empire. Venturesome Luke Skywalker and dashing captain Han Solo team together with the loveable robot duo R2-D2 and C-3PO to rescue the beautiful princess and restore peace and justice in the Empire. Genres: Action, Family, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: Tunisia, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 1m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring 2001 One ring to rule them all Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Orlando Bloom, John Rhys-Davies, Sean Bean, Christopher Lee, Sean Astin, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Hugo Weaving, Cate Blanchett, Ian Holm, Craig Parker. Overview: Young hobbit Frodo Baggins, after inheriting a mysterious ring from his uncle Bilbo, must leave his home in order to keep it from falling into the hands of its evil creator. Along the way, a fellowship is formed to protect the ringbearer and make sure that the ring arrives at its final destination: Mt. Doom, the only place where it can be destroyed. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 58m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark 1981 Raiders of the Lost Ark Indiana Jones - the new hero from the creators of JAWS and STAR WARS. Director: Steven Spielberg. Cast: Harrison Ford, Karen Allen, Paul Freeman, Ronald Lacey, John Rhys-Davies, Denholm Elliott, Wolf Kahler, Anthony Higgins, Vic Tablian, Don Fellows, William Hootkins, Alfred Molina, Kelly Williams. Overview: When Dr. Indiana Jones -- the tweed-suited professor who just happens to be a celebrated archaeologist -- is hired by the government to locate the legendary Ark of the Covenant, he finds himself up against the entire Nazi regime. Genres: Action, Adventure. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 The Matrix 1999 Welcome to the Real World. Directors: Lana Wachowski, Andy Wachowski. Cast: Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss, Laurence Fishburne, Hugo Weaving, Marcus Chong, Gloria Foster, Julian Arahanga, Belinda McClory, Joe Pantoliano, Matt Doran, Anthony Ray Parker, Paul Goddard, David Aston, Marc Aden. Overview: A computer hacker learns from mysterious rebels about the true nature of his reality and his role in the war against its controllers. Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: Australia, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 16m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers 2002 A New Power Is Rising. Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Orlando Bloom, John Rhys-Davies, Christopher Lee, Sean Astin, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Hugo Weaving, Craig Parker, Bernard Hill, Andy Serkis, Brad Dourif. Overview: Frodo and Sam are trekking to Mordor to destroy the One Ring of Power while Gimli, Legolas and Aragorn search for the orc-captured Merry and Pippin. All along, nefarious wizard Saruman awaits the Fellowship members at the Orthanc Tower in Isengard. Genres: Action, Adventure, Fantasy. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 59m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 Terminator 2: Judgment Day 1991 It's nothing personal. Director: James Cameron. Cast: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Linda Hamilton, Edward Furlong, Robert Patrick, Earl Boen, Joe Morton, S. Epatha Merkerson, Castulo Guerra, Danny Cooksey, Jenette Goldstein, Xander Berkeley. Overview: Nearly 10 years have passed since Sarah Connor was targeted for termination by a cyborg from the future. Now her son, John, the future leader of the resistance, is the target for a newer, more deadly terminator. Once again, the resistance has managed to send a protector back to attempt to save John and his mother Sarah. Genres: Action, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: France, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 17m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Saving Private Ryan 1998 In the Last Great Invasion of the Last Great War, The Greatest Danger for Eight Men was Saving... One. Director: Steven Spielberg. Cast: Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Dennis Farina, Joerg Stadler, Harve Presnell, Max Martini, Matt Damon, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Vin Diesel, Adam Goldberg, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Ted Danson, Paul Giamatti. Overview: As U.S. troops storm the beaches of Normandy, three brothers lie dead on the battlefield, with a fourth trapped behind enemy lines. Ranger captain John Miller and seven men are tasked with penetrating German-held territory and bringing the boy home. Genres: Action, Drama, History, War. Countries: France, United Kingdom, Ireland. Runtime: 2h 50m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 The Treasure of the Sierra Madre 1948 The nearer they get to their treasure, the farther they get from the law Director: John Huston. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Walter Huston, Tim Holt, Bruce Bennett, Barton MacLane, Alfonso Bedoya, Arturo Soto Rangel, Manuel Dondé, José Torvay, Margarito Luna, Robert Blake, John Huston. Overview: Fred C. Dobbs and Bob Curtin, both down on their luck in Tampico, Mexico in 1925, meet up with a grizzled prospector named Howard and decide to join with him in search of gold in the wilds of central Mexico. Through enormous difficulties, they eventually succeed in finding gold, but bandits, the elements, and most especially greed threaten to turn their success into disaster. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 6m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 Das Boot 1982 When the hunters become the hunted Director: Wolfgang Petersen. Cast: Jürgen Prochnow, Herbert Grönemeyer, Klaus Wennemann, Hubertus Bengsch, Martin Semmelrogge, Bernd Tauber, Erwin Leder, Martin May, Heinz Hoenig, Uwe Ochsenknecht, Claude-Oliver Rudolph, Jan Fedder, Ralf Richter. Overview: A German submarine hunts allied ships during the Second World War. Soon it becomes hunted itself. The crew tries to survive below the surface, while stretching both the boat and themselves to their limits... Genres: Action, Drama, Foreign, History, Thriller, War. Countries: Germany, France. Runtime: 2h 29m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Aliens 1986 This Time It's War Director: James Cameron. Cast: Sigourney Weaver, Carrie Henn, Michael Biehn, Lance Henriksen, Paul Reiser, Bill Paxton, William Hope, Jenette Goldstein, Al Matthews, Mark Rolston, Colette Hiller, Daniel Kash, Cynthia Dale Scott, Ricco Ross, Tip Tipping. Overview: When Ripley's lifepod is found by a salvage crew over 50 years later, she finds that terra-formers are on the very planet they found the alien species. When the company sends a family of colonists out to investigate her story... all contact is lost with the planet and colonists. They enlist Ripley and the colonial marines to return and search for answers. Genres: Action, Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 17m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 The General 1927 Directors: Clyde Bruckman, Buster Keaton. Cast: Buster Keaton, Marion Mack, Glen Cavender, Jim Farley, Frederick Vroom, Charles Henry Smith, Frank Barnes, Joe Keaton, Mike Donlin, Tom Nawn. Overview: The General is a 1927 American silent film comedy from Buster Keaton. The film flopped when first released but is now regarded as the height of silent film comedy. The film is based on events from America’s civil war. Genres: Comedy, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 18m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Yojimbo 1961 Yôjinbô Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Toshirô Mifune, Tatsuya Nakadai, Yôko Tsukasa, Isuzu Yamada, Daisuke Katô, Takashi Shimura, Seizaburô Kawazu, Hiroshi Tachikawa, Yôsuke Natsuki, Eijirô Tôno, Kamatari Fujiwara, Ikio Sawamura, Atsushi Watanabe, Susumu Fujita, Kyû Sazanka. Overview: The incomparable Toshiro Mifune stars in Akira Kurosawa’s visually stunning and darkly comic Yojimbo. To rid a terror-stricken village of corruption, wily masterless samurai Sanjuro turns a range war between two evil clans to his own advantage. Remade twice, by Sergio Leone and Walter Hill, this exhilarating genre-twister remains one of the most influential and entertaining films of all time. Genres: Action, Drama, Foreign, Indie, Thriller. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 50m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Braveheart 1995 Every man dies. Not every man truly lives. Director: Mel Gibson. Cast: Mel Gibson, Catherine McCormack, Sophie Marceau, Patrick McGoohan, Angus Macfadyen, Brendan Gleeson, James Robinson, James Cosmo, Sean McGinley, Gerda Stevenson, Mhairi Calvey, Jeanne Marine, Sean Lawlor, Sandy Nelson, Alan Tall. Overview: Enraged at the slaughter of Murron -- his new bride and childhood love -- legendary Scottish warrior William Wallace slays a platoon of the local English lord's soldiers. This leads the village to revolt and, eventually, the entire country to rise up against English rule. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, History, War. Countries: United Kingdom, Ireland, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 57m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 Gladiator 2000 Father of a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife and I shall have my vengeance in this life or the next Director: Ridley Scott. Cast: Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, Oliver Reed, Richard Harris, Derek Jacobi, Djimon Hounsou, David Schofield, John Shrapnel, Tomas Arana, Ralf Moeller, Tommy Flanagan, Spencer Treat Clark, David Hemmings, Sven-Ole Thorsen. Overview: Gladiator is an epic film of love, death and betrayal set in the Roman Empire. General Maximus' success in battle earns the favour of an elderly Emperor at the expense of the Emperor's son. In a fit of jealous rage the son slays his father before turning his anger towards Maximus. Now reduced to a slave, his family dead, Maximus must fight as a Gladiator to gain his freedom, and his revenge. Genres: Action, Drama, History, Adventure. Countries: United Kingdom, Morocco, Malta, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 35m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Ran 1985 Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Tatsuya Nakadai, Akira Terao, Jinpachi Nezu, Daisuke Ryû. Overview: A story of greed, a lust for power, and ultimate revenge when an elderly lord abdicates to his three sons, and the two corrupt ones turn against him. A profound examination of the folly of war and the crumbling of one family under the weight of betrayal, greed, and the insatiable thirst for power. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Foreign, History, Indie. Countries: France, Japan. Runtime: 2h 40m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 Elite Squad: The Enemy Within 2011 Director: José Padilha. Cast: Wagner Moura, Irandhir Santos, André Ramiro, Pedro Van-Held, Maria Ribeiro, Sandro Rocha, Milhem Cortaz, Tainá Müller, Seu Jorge, André Mattos. Overview: After a bloody invasion of the BOPE in the High-Security Penitentiary Bangu 1 in Rio de Janeiro to control a rebellion of interns, the Lieutenant-Colonel Roberto Nascimento and the second in command Captain André Matias are accused by the Human Right Aids member Diogo Fraga of execution of prisoners. Matias is transferred to the corrupted Military Police and Nascimento is exonerated from the BOPE by the Governor. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Country: Brazil. Runtime: 1h 55m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 Star Wars: Episode VI - Return of the Jedi 1983 The Empire Falls... Director: Richard Marquand. Cast: Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Billy Dee Williams, Anthony Daniels, Peter Mayhew, James Earl Jones, Frank Oz, Ian McDiarmid, Sebastian Shaw, David Prowse, Alec Guinness, Kenny Baker. Overview: As Rebel leaders map their strategy for an all-out attack on the Emperor's newer, bigger -- and dreaded --Death Star. Han Solo remains frozen in the cavernous desert fortress of Jabba the Hutt, the most loathsome outlaw in the universe, who is also keeping Princess Leia as a slave girl.Now a master of the Force, Luke Skywalker rescues his friends, but he cannot become a true Jedi Knight until he wages his own crucial battle against Darth Vader, who has sworn to win Luke over to the Dark side of the Force. Genres: Action, Family, Fantasy, Science Fiction, Adventure. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 15m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade 1989 The man with the hat is back. And this time, he's bringing his Dad. Director: Steven Spielberg. Cast: Harrison Ford, Sean Connery, Denholm Elliott, Alison Doody, John Rhys-Davies, Julian Glover, River Phoenix, Michael Byrne, Kevork Malikyan, Robert Eddison, Richard Young, Alexei Sayle, Paul Maxwell, Isla Blair, Vernon Dobtcheff. Overview: Three years after he recovered The Ark of the Covenant. Jones recovered an artifact that he found as a kid, the Cross of Francisco De Coronado from treasure hunters. Now, Jones discovers the history of another biblical artifact called "The Holy Grail". He was also informed that his father, Henry Jones is missing. Jones has to find his father who is looking for the Grail. However, Jones will become involved in the search of the Holy Grail along with his father, as well as fighting the Nazis to reach it. Genres: Action, Adventure. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Die Hard 1988 40 Stories. Twelve Terrorists. One Cop. Director: John McTiernan. Cast: Bruce Willis, Reginald VelJohnson, Bonnie Bedelia, Alexander Godunov, Paul Gleason, William Atherton, De'voreaux White, Hart Bochner, Alan Rickman, Dennis Hayden, James Shigeta, Robert Davi, Bob Jennings. Overview: NYPD cop John McClane's plan to reconcile with his estranged wife, Holly, is thrown for a serious loop when minutes after he arrives at her office, the entire building is overtaken by a group of pitiless terrorists. With little help from the LAPD, wisecracking McClane sets out to single-handedly rescue the hostages and bring the bad guys down. Genres: Action, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 11m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Sin City 2005 There is no justice without sin. Directors: Frank Miller, Robert Rodriguez, Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Bruce Willis, Mickey Rourke, Clive Owen, Jessica Alba, Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Jaime King, Rutger Hauer, Benicio Del Toro, Rosario Dawson, Michael Clarke Duncan, Devon Aoki, Alexis Bledel, Powers Boothe, Marley Shelton. Overview: The first of three films based on the beautiful comic world of Frank Miller. Sin City depicts the comic book almost page for page with its heavy contrast black and white extremely violent and graphic imagery. Sin City is set in a dangerous and dark Basin City where corruption, sex and violence is everyday life. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 Batman Begins 2005 Evil fears the knight. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Christian Bale, Liam Neeson, Michael Caine, Katie Holmes, Gary Oldman, Cillian Murphy, Rutger Hauer, Mark Boone Junior, Ken Watanabe, Linus Roache, Richard Brake, Sara Stewart, Tim Booth, Rena Sofer, Tom Wilkinson. Overview: Bruce Wayne has watched his home, Gotham City, turn into a crime infested abyss throughout his entire life, so he decides to become the hero Gotham needs- Batman! Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Fantasy, Science Fiction, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 Heat 1995 A Los Angeles crime saga. Director: Michael Mann. Cast: Al Pacino, Robert De Niro, Val Kilmer, Jon Voight, Tom Sizemore, Diane Venora, Amy Brenneman, Ashley Judd, Mykelti Williamson, Wes Studi, Ted Levine, Dennis Haysbert, William Fichtner, Natalie Portman, Tom Noonan. Overview: Obsessive master thief McCauley leads a crack crew on various military-style heists across L.A. while equally obsessive detective Hanna tracks him. Each man recognizes and respects the other's ability and dedication, even as they express the willingness to kill each other, if necessary. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 51m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 Platoon 1986 The first casualty of war is innocence. Director: Oliver Stone. Cast: Charlie Sheen, Willem Dafoe, Forest Whitaker, Kevin Dillon, John C. McGinley, Francesco Quinn, Richard Edson, Reggie Johnson, Keith David, David Neidorf, Mark Moses, Chris Pedersen, Ivan Kane, Paul Sanchez, J. Adam Glover. Overview: A young recruit in Vietnam faces a moral crisis when confronted with the horrors of war and the duality of man. Genres: Action, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 Kill Bill Vol. 1 2003 Go for the kill Director: Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Uma Thurman, Lucy Liu, David Carradine, Michael Madsen, Daryl Hannah, Vivica A. Fox, Michael Parks, Chiaki Kuriyama, Sonny Chiba, Julie Dreyfus, Jun Kunimura, Kazuki Kitamura, Akaji Maro, Chia Hui Liu, Ambrosia Kelley. Overview: An assassin is shot at the altar by her ruthless employer, Bill, and other members of their assassination circle. But "The Bride" lives to plot her vengeance. Setting out for some payback, she makes a death list and hunts down those who wronged her, saving Bill for last. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Countries: Japan, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 51m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Ben-Hur 1959 The entertainment experience of a lifetime. Director: William Wyler. Cast: Charlton Heston, Jack Hawkins, Haya Harareet, Stephen Boyd, Hugh Griffith, Martha Scott, Cathy O'Donnell, Frank Thring, Sam Jaffe, Ady Berber, Finlay Currie, George Relph, André Morell. Overview: Ben-Hur is a 1959 epic film directed by William Wyler, the third film version of Lew Wallace's 1880 novel Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ. It premiered at Loew's State Theatre in New York City on November 18, 1959. The film went on to win a record of eleven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, a feat equaled only by Titanic in 1998 and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King in 2004. It was also the last film to win the Oscar for both Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor, until nearly 44 years later when Mystic River achieved the same feat.The movie revolves around a Jewish prince who is betrayed and sent into slavery by a Roman friend and how he regains his freedom and comes back for revenge. Genres: Adventure, Drama, History. Country: Italy. Runtime: 3h 32m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 District 9 2009 You are not welcome here. Director: Neill Blomkamp. Cast: William Allen Young, Robert Hobbs, Sharlto Copley, Jason Cope, Vanessa Haywood, Kenneth Nkosi, Nathalie Boltt, Sylvaine Strike, Elizabeth Mkandawie, John Sumner, Greg Melvill-Smith, Nick Blake, Morena Busa Sesatsa, Themba Nkosi, Mzwandile Nqoba. Overview: Aliens land in South Africa and have no way home. Years later after living in a slum and wearing out their welcome the "Non-Humans" are being moved to a new tent city overseen by Multi-National United (MNU). The movie follows an MNU employee tasked with leading the relocation and his relationship with one of the alien leaders. Genres: Action, Thriller, Science Fiction, Foreign. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America, Canada, South Africa. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 All Quiet on the Western Front 1930 Director: Lewis Milestone. Cast: Lew Ayres, Arnold Lucy, John Wray, Louis Wolheim, Ben Alexander, Scott Kolk, Owen Davis Jr., Walter Rogers, William Bakewell, Slim Summerville, Zasu Pitts, Beryl Mercer. Overview: A young soldier faces profound disillusionment in the soul-destroying horror of World War I. Together with several other young German soldiers, he experiences the horrors of war, such evil of which he had not conceived of when signing up to fight. They eventually become sad, tormented, and confused of their purpose. Genres: Action, Drama, History, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 20m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 The Bandit 1996 Eskiya Director: Yavuz Turgul. Cast: Şener Şen, Ugur Yücel, Özkan Uğur. Overview: The epic adventures of the legendary Baran the Bandit following his release from prison. After serving 35 years, it is no surprise that the world has changed dramatically. Still, Baran can't help but be shocked to discover that his home village is now underwater thanks to the construction of a new dam. He then heads for Istanbul to get revenge upon his former best friend, the man who snitched on him and stole his lover Keje. Along the way, Baran teams up with Cumali, a tough young punk who finds the thief's old-fashioned ways rather quaint. When Cumali gets into deep trouble with a crime boss, Baran adds another vengeful task to his roster. Genres: Drama, Action, Thriller, Crime, Foreign. Country: Turkey. Runtime: 2h 1m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 The Terminator 1984 Your future is in his hands. Director: James Cameron. Cast: Arnold Schwarzenegger, Michael Biehn, Linda Hamilton, Paul Winfield, Lance Henriksen, Bess Motta, Earl Boen, Rick Rossovich, Bill Paxton, Brian Thompson, Franco Columbu, Dick Miller. Overview: In the post-apocalyptic future, reigning tyrannical supercomputers teleport a cyborg assassin known as the "Terminator" back to 1984 to snuff Sarah Connor, whose unborn son is destined to lead insurgents against 21st century mechanical hegemony. Meanwhile, the human-resistance movement dispatches a lone warrior to safeguard Sarah. Can he stop the virtually indestructible killing machine? Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 The Bourne Ultimatum 2007 Remember everything. Forgive nothing. Director: Paul Greengrass. Cast: Matt Damon, Joan Allen, Paddy Considine, Julia Stiles, David Strathairn, Édgar Ramírez, Corey Johnson, Scott Glenn, Albert Finney, Tom Gallop, Daniel Brühl, Joey Ansah, Colin Stinton. Overview: Bourne is brought out of hiding once again by reporter Simon Ross who is trying to unveil Operation Blackbriar, an upgrade to Project Treadstone, in a series of newspaper columns. Information from the reporter stirs a new set of memories, and Bourne must finally uncover his dark past while dodging The Company's best efforts to eradicate him. Genres: Action, Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Countries: United States of America, Germany. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 The Wild Bunch 1969 Director: Sam Peckinpah. Cast: Ernest Borgnine, William Holden, Robert Ryan, Edmond O'Brien, Warren Oates, Jaime Sánchez, Ben Johnson, Emilio Fernández, Strother Martin, L.Q. Jones. Overview: The Wild Bunch is one of the best representations of the Western genre; A group of outlaws is in battle with the law and with modern society. Genres: Action, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 23m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 Tae Guk Gi: The Brotherhood of War 2004 Taegukgi hwinalrimyeo Director: Je-gyu Kang. Cast: Dong-gun Jang, Bin Won, Eun-ju Lee, Hyeong-jin Kong, Yeong-ran Lee, Kil-Kang Ahn, Jin Jung, Jae-hyeong Jeon, Min-ho Jang, Yun-hie Jo, Min-sik Choi, Do-Hee Go, Taek-ha Hwang, Dae-Hoon Jeong, Doo-hong Jung. Overview: In 1950, in South Korea, shoe-shiner Jin-tae Lee and his 18-year-old old student brother, Jin-seok Lee, form a poor but happy family with their mother, Jin-tae's fiancé Young-shin Kim, and her young sisters. Jin-tae and his mother are tough workers, who sacrifice themselves to send Jin-seok to the university. When North Korea invades the South, the family escapes to a relative's house in the country, but along their journey, Jin-seok is forced to join the army to fight in the front, and Jin-tae enlists too to protect his young brother. The commander promises Jin-tae that if he gets a medal he would release his brother, and Jin-tae becomes the braver soldier in the company. Along the bloody war between brothers, the relationship of Jin-seok with his older brother deteriorates leading to a dramatic and tragic end. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Foreign, History, War. Country: Korea. Runtime: 2h 20m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 V for Vendetta 2006 People should not be afraid of their governments. Governments should be afraid of their people. Director: James McTeigue. Cast: Natalie Portman, Hugo Weaving, Stephen Rea, Stephen Fry, John Hurt, Tim Pigott-Smith, Natasha Wightman, Rupert Graves, Roger Allam, Ben Miles, Sinéad Cusack, John Standing, Eddie Marsan, Clive Ashborn, Emma Field-Rayner. Overview: Set against the futuristic landscape of a totalitarian Britain, the movie tells the story of a mild-mannered young woman named Evey who is rescued from a life-and-death situation by a man known only as “V” – a striking figure in a black cloak and a high-peaked hat under which he wears a curious mask. Incomparably charismatic and ferociously skilled in the art of combat and deception, V ignites a revolution when he urges his fellow citizens to rise up against tyranny and oppression. Genres: Action, Drama, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: Germany, United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 Sanjuro 1962 Tsubaki Sanjûrô Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Toshirô Mifune, Tatsuya Nakadai, Keiju Kobayashi, Yûzô Kayama. Overview: A crafty samurai helps a young man and his fellow clansmen save his uncle, who has been framed and imprisoned by a corrupt superintendent. Genres: Drama, Action, Comedy, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Ip Man 2008 The celebrated Kung Fu master of Bruce Lee. Director: Wilson Yip. Cast: Donnie Yen, Simon Yam, Yu Xing, You-Nam Wong, Chen Zhi Hui. Overview: A semi-biographical account of Yip Man, the first martial arts master to teach the Chinese martial art of Wing Chun. The film focuses on events surrounding Ip that took place in the city of Foshan between the 1930s to 1940s during the Second Sino-Japanese War. Directed by Wilson Yip, the film stars Donnie Yen in the lead role, and features fight choreography by Sammo Hung. Genres: Action, Foreign, History. Country: Hong Kong. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Avatar 2009 Enter the World of Pandora Director: James Cameron. Cast: Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldana, Sigourney Weaver, Stephen Lang, Michelle Rodriguez, Joel Moore, Giovanni Ribisi, CCH Pounder, Laz Alonso, Wes Studi, Dileep Rao, Matt Gerald, Dean Knowsley. Overview: Set in the mid-22nd century, when humans are mining lucrative unobtanium on Pandora, a lush moon in the Alpha Centauri star system. Disabled Marine Jake Sully travels to planet Pandora to become an Avatar, integrate himself with the natives and help the mining effort. But he finds himself caught in between an interstellar conflict after falling for Na'vi warrior Neytiri. Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction, Romance. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 42m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 Michael the Brave 1970 Mihai Viteazul Director: Sergiu Nicolaescu. Cast: Amza Pellea, Ion Besoiu, Olga Tudorache. Overview: An epic fresco depicting the reign (1593-1601) of Mihai Pätrascu (better known as "Mihai Viteazul" / "Michael the Brave"), the famous prince who united the three provinces: Transalpine Vallachia, Transylvania and Moldavia, into the country of Romania, at the end of the 16th century (1599-1601) against the opposition of the Ottoman and Austrian Empires, this movie features large scale battle scenes mixed with political intrigues, murderous treachery, and family drama. Countries: France, Italy, Romania. Runtime: 1h 47m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind 1984 Kaze no tani no Naushika Director: Hayao Miyazaki. Cast: Sumi Shimamoto, Mahito Tsujimura, Hisako Kyôda, Gorô Naya, Ichirô Nagai, Kôhei Miyauchi, Jôji Yanami, Minoru Yada, Rihoko Yoshida, Yôji Matsuda, Mîna Tominaga, Yoshiko Sakakibara, Iemasa Kayumi, Tetsuo Mizutori, Uma Thurman. Overview: Nausicaä, a gentle young princess, has an empathetic bond with the giant mutated insects that evolved in the wake of the destruction of the ecosystem. Traveling by cumbersome flying ship, on the backs of giant birds, and perched atop her beloved glider, Nausicaä and her allies must negotiate peace between kingdoms battling over the last of the world's precious natural resources. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy, Animation, Action, Science Fiction, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 35m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 Castle in the Sky 1986 Tenkû no shiro Rapyuta Director: Hayao Miyazaki. Cast: Keiko Yokozawa, Mayumi Tanaka, Minori Terada, Kotoe Hatsui, Fujio Tokita, Ichirô Nagai, Hiroshi Itoh, Machiko Washio, Takumi Kamiyama, Yoshito Yasuhara, Sukekiyo Kameyama, Eken Mine, Tarako, Reiko Suzuki, Masashi Sugawara. Overview: The orphan Sheeta inherited a mysterious crystal that links her to the mythical sky-kingdom of Laputa. With the help of resourceful Pazu and a rollicking band of sky pirates, she makes her way to the ruins of the once-great civilization. Sheeta and Pazu must outwit the evil Muska, who plans to use Laputa's science to make himself ruler of the world. Genres: Animation, Family, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 4m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 The Hidden Fortress 1958 Kakushi-toride no san-akunin Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Toshiro Mifune, Takashi Shimura, Minoru Chiaki, Misa Uehara, Kamatari Fujiwara, Susumu Fujita, Eiko Miyoshi, Toshiko Higuchi, Yû Fujiki, Yoshio Tsuchiya, Kokuten Kôdô, Takeshi Katô, Kôji Mitsui, Toranosuke Ogawa, Kichijirô Ueda. Overview: Lured by gold, two greedy peasants escort a man and woman across enemy lines. However, they do not realize that their companions are actually a princess and her general. Genres: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Drama, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 19m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 Star Trek 2009 The future begins. Director: J.J. Abrams. Cast: Chris Pine, Zachary Quinto, Eric Bana, Anton Yelchin, Simon Pegg, Zoe Saldana, Karl Urban, John Cho, Bruce Greenwood, Leonard Nimoy, Winona Ryder, Ben Cross, Greg Ellis, Chris Hemsworth, Jennifer Morrison. Overview: The fate of the galaxy rests in the hands of bitter rivals. One, James Kirk, is a delinquent, thrill-seeking Iowa farm boy. The other, Spock, a Vulcan, was raised in a logic-based society that rejects all emotion. As fiery instinct clashes with calm reason, their unlikely but powerful partnership is the only thing capable of leading their crew through unimaginable danger, boldly going where no one has gone before. The human adventure has begun again. Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction. Countries: Germany, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ 1925 Director: Fred Niblo. Cast: Ramon Novarro, Francis X. Bushman, May McAvoy, Betty Bronson, Claire McDowell, Kathleen Key, Carmel Myers, Nigel De Brulier, Mitchell Lewis, Leo White, Frank Currier, Charles Belcher, Dale Fuller, Winter Hall. Overview: Ben-Hur is a wealthy Jew and boyhood friend of the powerful Roman Tribune, Messala. When an accident leads to Ben-Hur's arrest, Messala, who has become corrupt and arrogant, makes sure Ben-Hur and his family are jailed and separated. Genres: Adventure, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 23m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Howl's Moving Castle 2004 Director: Hayao Miyazaki. Cast: Chieko Baisho, Takuya Kimura, Akihiro Miwa, Tatsuya Gashuin, Ryunosuke Kamiki, Mitsunori Isaki, Yô Ôizumi, Akio Ôtsuka, Daijiro Harada, Haruko Kato, Jean Simmons, Lauren Bacall, Blythe Danner, Emily Mortimer, Josh Hutcherson. Overview: When Sophie, a shy young woman, is cursed with an old body by a spiteful witch, her only chance of breaking the spell lies with a self-indulgent yet insecure young wizard and his companions in his legged, walking home. Genres: Fantasy, Animation, Science Fiction, Family, Foreign. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 The Adventures of Robin Hood 1938 Directors: Michael Curtiz, William Keighley. Cast: Errol Flynn, Olivia de Havilland, Basil Rathbone, Claude Rains, Patric Knowles, Eugene Pallette, Alan Hale, Melville Cooper, Ian Hunter, Una O'Connor, Herbert Mundin, Montagu Love, Leonard Willey, Robert Noble. Overview: Robin Hood (Errol Flynn) fights nobly for justice against the evil Sir Guy of Gisbourne (Basil Rathbone) while striving to win the hand of the beautiful Maid Marian (Olivia de Havilland). Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 The Incredibles 2004 No gut, no glory Director: Brad Bird. Cast: Craig T. Nelson, Holly Hunter, Samuel L. Jackson, Jason Lee, Dominique Louis, Teddy Newton, Eli Fucile, Maeve Andrews, Spencer Fox, Sarah Vowell. Overview: Bob Parr has given up his superhero days to log in time as an insurance adjuster and raise his three children with his formerly heroic wife in suburbia. But when he receives a mysterious assignment, it's time to get back into costume. Genres: Action, Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Family, Fantasy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 X-Men: First Class 2011 Witness the moment that will change our world. Director: Matthew Vaughn. Cast: Michael Fassbender, Rose Byrne, Jennifer Lawrence, James McAvoy, January Jones, Kevin Bacon, Nicholas Hoult, Jason Flemyng, Zoë Kravitz, Oliver Platt. Overview: Before Charles Xavier and Erik Lensherr took the names Professor X and Magneto, they were two young men discovering their powers for the first time. Before they were archenemies, they were closest of friends, working together, with other Mutants (some familiar, some new), to stop the greatest threat the world has ever known. In the process, a rift between them opened, which began the eternal war between Magneto's Brotherhood and Professor X's X-MEN. Genres: Action, Drama, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: PG-13. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
