#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 1970-1979 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 1970-1979 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 The Godfather 1972 An offer you can't refuse. Director: Francis Ford Coppola. Cast: Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, Richard S. Castellano, Robert Duvall, Sterling Hayden, John Marley, Richard Conte, Al Lettieri, Diane Keaton, Abe Vigoda, Talia Shire, Gianni Russo, John Cazale, Rudy Bond. Overview: The story spans the years from 1945 to 1955 and chronicles the fictional Italian-American Corleone crime family. When organized crime family patriarch Vito Corleone barely survives an attempt on his life, his youngest son, Michael, steps in to take care of the would-be killers, launching a campaign of bloody revenge. Genres: Drama, Crime. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 55m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 The Godfather: Part II 1974 I don't feel I have to wipe everybody out, Tom. Just my enemies. Director: Francis Ford Coppola. Cast: Al Pacino, Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton, Robert De Niro, John Cazale, Talia Shire, Lee Strasberg, Michael V. Gazzo, G.D. Spradlin, Richard Bright, Francesca De Sapio, Oreste Baldini, Gastone Moschin, Giuseppe Sillato, Kelly Williams. Overview: The continuing saga of the Corleone crime family tells the story of a young Vito Corleone growing up in Sicily and in 1910s New York; and follows Michael Corleone in the 1950s as he attempts to expand the family business into Las Vegas, Hollywood and Cuba Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Countries: Dominican Republic, Italy, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 20m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest 1975 If he's crazy, what does that make you? Director: Milos Forman. Cast: Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher, William Redfield, Michael Berryman, Peter Brocco, Dean R. Brooks, Alonzo Brown, Scatman Crothers, Mwako Cumbuka, Danny DeVito, William Duell, Josip Elic, Lan Fendors, Nathan George, Ken Kenny. Overview: While serving time for insanity at a state mental hospital, implacable rabble-rouser Randle Patrick McMurphy inspires his fellow patients to rebel against the authoritarian rule of head nurse Mildred Ratched. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 13m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Star Wars: Episode IV: A New Hope 1977 A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away... Director: George Lucas. Cast: Mark Hamill, Carrie Fisher, Harrison Ford, Peter Cushing, Anthony Daniels, Kenny Baker, Alec Guinness, Peter Mayhew, David Prowse, James Earl Jones, Phil Brown, Shelagh Fraser, Roger Lloyd-Pack. Overview: Princess Leia is captured and held hostage by the evil Imperial forces in their effort to take over the galactic Empire. Venturesome Luke Skywalker and dashing captain Han Solo team together with the loveable robot duo R2-D2 and C-3PO to rescue the beautiful princess and restore peace and justice in the Empire. Genres: Action, Family, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: Tunisia, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 1m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 Apocalypse Now 1979 This is the end... Director: Francis Ford Coppola. Cast: Martin Sheen, Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall, Laurence Fishburne, Sam Bottoms, Frederic Forrest, Albert Hall, Harrison Ford, Dennis Hopper, G. D. Spradlin, Jerry Ziesmer, Francis Ford Coppola, Tom Mason, Scott Glenn, Colleen Camp. Overview: At the height of the Vietnam war, Captain Benjamin Willard is sent on a dangerous mission that, officially, "does not exist, nor will it ever exist." His goal is to locate - and eliminate - a mysterious Green Beret Colonel named Walter Kurtz, who has been leading his personal army on illegal guerrilla missions into enemy territory. Genres: Action, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 33m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 Taxi Driver 1976 On every street in every city, there's a nobody who dreams of being a somebody. Director: Martin Scorsese. Cast: Robert De Niro, Cybill Shepherd, Harvey Keitel, Jodie Foster, Peter Boyle, Leonard Harris, Albert Brooks, Diahnne Abbott, Frank Adu, Gino Ardito. Overview: Robert De Niro stars as Travis Bickle in this oppressive psychodrama about a Vietnam veteran who rebels against the decadence and immorality of big city life in New York while working the nightshift as a taxi driver. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 Alien 1979 In space no one can hear you scream. Director: Ridley Scott. Cast: Sigourney Weaver, Tom Skerritt, Veronica Cartwright, Harry Dean Stanton, John Hurt, Ian Holm, Yaphet Kotto, Bolaji Badejo, Helen Horton, Eddie Powell. Overview: During its return to the earth, commercial spaceship Nostromo intercepts a distress signal from a distant planet. When a three-member team of the crew discovers a chamber containing thousands of eggs on the planet, a creature inside one of the eggs attacks an explorer. The entire crew is unaware of the impending nightmare set to descend upon them when the alien parasite planted inside its unfortunate host is birthed. Genres: Action, Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 57m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 A Clockwork Orange 1971 Being the adventures of a young man whose principal interests are rape, ultra-violence and Beethoven. Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Malcolm McDowell, Patrick Magee, Adrienne Corri, Michael Bates, Warren Clarke, James Marcus, Michael Tarn, Carl Duering, Paul Farrell, Miriam Karlin, Sheila Raynor, Aubrey Morris, Godfrey Quigley, Clive Francis, Richard Connaught. Overview: A Clockwork Orange is one of Stanley Kubrick’s greatest works about a gang of dangerous teenagers in future Britain. One member tries to get out and is beaten up and left for the police. He’s given the option to help the police find his old gang or stay in jail for a long time. Based on a novel, the film was personally put into theatres by Kubrick adding to the film's importance and strength. Genres: Crime, Foreign, Science Fiction. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 16m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 Chinatown 1974 Director: Roman Polanski. Cast: Jack Nicholson, Faye Dunaway, John Huston, Perry Lopez, John Hillerman, Darrell Zwerling, Diane Ladd, Roy Jenson, Roman Polanski, Richard Bakalyan, Bruce Glover. Overview: A private detective investigating an adultery case stumbles on to a scheme of murder that has something to do with water. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 11m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 Monty Python and the Holy Grail 1975 Makes Ben Hur look like an Epic Directors: Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones. Cast: Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Michael Palin, Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones, Graham Chapman, Graham Chapman, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, John Cleese, John Cleese, John Cleese, John Cleese, Eric Idle. Overview: The King Arthur and The Round Table saga about the search for the Holy Grail is portrayed a bit differently in this comedy from Monty Python. With a killer monster rabbit and many outrageous encounters this smart comedy has become a cult classic. Genres: Action, Comedy, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 31m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Scenes from a Marriage 1973 Scener ur ett äktenskap Director: Ingmar Bergman. Cast: Liv Ullmann, Erland Josephson, Bibi Andersson, Jan Malmsjö. Overview: Follows the relationship of Marianne and Johan as they separate, engage in extramarital affairs, bond, re-bond and eventually divorce. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Romance. Country: Sweden. Runtime: 2h 47m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 The Sting 1973 ...all it takes is a little Confidence. Director: George Roy Hill. Cast: Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Robert Shaw, Charles Durning, Ray Walston, Eileen Brennan, Harold Gould, John Heffernan, Dana Elcar, Jack Kehoe, Dimitra Arliss, Robert Earl Jones, James Sloyan, Charles Dierkop, Lee Paul. Overview: Set in the 1930's this intricate caper deals with an ambitious small-time crook and a veteran con man who seek revenge on a vicious crime lord who murdered one of their gang. Genres: Comedy, Crime, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 9m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 Hababam Sınıfı Sınıfta Kaldı 1975 Director: Ertem Eğilmez. Cast: Kemal Sunal, Münir Özkul, Semra Ozdamar, Tarık Akan, Muharrem Gürses, Halit Akçatepe, Feridun Şavlı, Şener Şen. Overview: Hababam Sinifi is basically a movie based on the novel by Rifat Ilgaz, telling the story about a class of lazy high school pranksters. The movie just presents the most entertaining moments of high school years; which we have all been there once, and feel deep down a nostalgia for the days when life was fun and we were teenagers, going only after fun and entertainment. Cheating in Literature exams, smoking in the mens room, playing hookey from school for a football game; those were the best days of our lives. While the movie is brilliantly and incredibly funny; it contains some heart breaking emotional moments as well. Country: Turkey. Runtime: 1h 31m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Jaws 1975 Don’t go in the water. Director: Steven Spielberg. Cast: Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw, Richard Dreyfuss, Lorraine Gary, Murray Hamilton, Carl Gottlieb, Jeffrey Kramer, Susan Backlinie, Jonathan Filley, Chris Rebello, Jay Mello, Lee Fierro, Jeffrey Voorhees, Craig Kingsbury, Dr. Robert Nevin. Overview: An insatiable great white shark terrorizes the townspeople of Amity Island, The police chief, an oceanographer and a grizzled shark hunter seek to destroy the bloodthirsty beast. Genres: Thriller, Horror. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 Annie Hall 1977 A nervous romance. Director: Woody Allen. Cast: Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Tony Roberts, Carol Kane, Paul Simon, Shelley Duvall, Janet Margolin, Colleen Dewhurst, Christopher Walken, Donald Symington, Helen Ludlam, Mordecai Lawner, Joan Neuman, Jonathan Munk, Dick Cavett. Overview: The neurotic New Yorker Woody Allen tells one of the greatest romantic comedies to be set in the city of New York. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 33m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 The Deer Hunter 1978 Winner of 5 Academy Awards including Best Picture 1978 Director: Michael Cimino. Cast: Robert De Niro, John Cazale, John Savage, Christopher Walken, Meryl Streep, George Dzundza, Chuck Aspegren, Shirley Stoler, Rutanya Alda, Pierre Segui, Mady Kaplan, Amy Wright, Mary Ann Haenel, Richard Kuss, Joe Grifasi. Overview: The Deer Hunter is a 1978 war drama film about a trio of Russian American steel worker friends and their infantry service in the Vietnam War. Genres: Drama, War. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Dersu Uzala 1977 Dersu Uzala / Дерсу Узала Director: Akira Kurosawa. Cast: Maksim Mounzouk, Youri Solomine, Svetania Daniltchenko. Overview: A Russian army explorer who is rescued in Siberia by a rugged Asian hunter renews his friendship with the woodsman years later when he returns as the head of a larger expedition. The hunter finds that all of his nature lore is of no help when he accompanies the explorer back to civilization. Genres: Drama, Action, Foreign. Countries: Russian Federation, Japan. Runtime: 2h 24m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 Life of Brian 1979 He wasn't the messiah. He was a very naughty boy. Director: Terry Jones. Cast: Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones, Michael Palin, Terence Bayler, Carol Cleveland, Kenneth Colley, Neil Innes, Charles McKeown, John Young, Gwen Taylor, Sue Jones-Davies, John Case. Overview: A brilliant parody from the British comedy group Monty Python about the history of (not Jesus but the boy born right next door to The Manger, Brian). A Terry Jones directed film from 1979 that has since gained cult status. What many fans don't know is that this movie might never have happened if not for the financial assistance of George Harrison (of The Beatles). Genre: Comedy. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 34m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Dog Day Afternoon 1975 Director: Sidney Lumet. Cast: Al Pacino, John Cazale, Charles Durning, Chris Sarandon, James Broderick, William Bogert, Penelope Allen, Sully Boyar, Beulah Garrick, Carol Kane, Sandra Kazan, Marcia Jean Kurtz, Amy Levitt, John Marriott, Estelle Omens. Overview: Dog Day Afternoon is a film based on true events and directed by Sidney Lumet. The film stars Al Pacino as a robber who held a bank hostage in Brooklyn, New York. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 Network 1976 Not since the dawn of time has America experienced a man like Howard Beale! Director: Sidney Lumet. Cast: Faye Dunaway, William Holden, Peter Finch, Robert Duvall, Wesley Addy, Ned Beatty, Arthur Burghardt, Conchata Ferrell. Overview: Not since the dawn of time has America experienced a man like Howard Beale! Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 1m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 Sleuth 1972 Director: Joseph L. Mankiewicz. Cast: Laurence Olivier, Michael Caine, Alec Cawthorne, John Matthews, Eve Channing, Teddy Martin. Overview: Sleuth is a thriller from director Joseph L. Mankiewicz starring Michael Caine and Laurence Olivier. Genres: Foreign, Thriller. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 18m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Paper Moon 1973 As P.T. Barnum put it, "There's a sucker born every minute." Director: Peter Bogdanovich. Cast: Ryan O'Neal, Tatum O'Neal, Madeline Kahn, John Hillerman. Overview: During the Great Depression, a con man finds himself saddled with a young girl who may or may not be his daughter, and the two forge an unlikely partnership. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 The Conformist 1970 Il Conformista Director: Bernardo Bertolucci. Cast: Jean-Louis Trintignant, Stefania Sandrelli, Gastone Moschin, Dominique Sanda, Enzo Tarascio, Fosco Giachetti, José Quaglio, Pierre Clémenti, Yvonne Sanson. Overview: A killer leaves his Italian homeland to arrange the assassination of his former teacher. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: Italy. Runtime: 1h 47m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 The Red Circle 1970 Le Cercle rouge Director: Jean-Pierre Melville. Cast: Alain Delon, Bourvil, Gian Maria Volonté, Yves Montand, Paul Crauchet, André Ekyan. Overview: Master thief Corey is fresh out of prison. But instead of toeing the line of law-abiding freedom, he finds his steps leading back to the shadowy world of crime, crossing those of a notorious escapee and alcoholic ex-cop. As the unlikely trio plots a heist against impossible odds, their trail is pursued by a relentless inspector, and fate seals their destinies. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 2h 20m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 The Last Picture Show 1971 Anarene, Texas, 1951. Nothing much has changed... Director: Peter Bogdanovich. Cast: Timothy Bottoms, Jeff Bridges, Cybill Shepherd, Ben Johnson, Cloris Leachman, Ellen Burstyn, Eileen Brennan, Clu Gulager, Sam Bottoms, Sharon Ullrick, Randy Quaid, Bill Thurman, Jessie Lee Fulton, Helena Humann, Barc Doyle. Overview: The coming of age of a youth named Sonny in a small Texas town in the 1950s. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 Сталкер 1979 Director: Andrei Tarkovsky. Cast: Aleksandr Kaidanovsky, Alisa Frejndlikh, Anatoli Solonitsyn, Nikolai Grinko, Natasha Abramova. Overview: Near a gray and unnamed city is the Zone, an alien place guarded by barbed wire and soldiers. Over his wife's numerous objections, a man rises in the dead of night: he's a stalker, one of a handful who have the mental gifts (and who risk imprisonment) to lead people into the Zone to the Room, a place where one's secret hopes come true. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Horror, Science Fiction, Thriller. Country: Russian Federation. Runtime: 2h 43m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 Ali: Fear Eats the Soul 1974 Angst essen Seele auf Director: Rainer Werner Fassbinder. Cast: Brigitte Mira, El Hedi ben Salem, Barbara Valentin, Irm Hermann, Elma Karlowa, Anita Bucher, Gusti Kreissl, Doris Mattes, Margit Symo, Katharina Herberg, Lilo Pempeit, Walter Sedlmayr, Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Karl Scheydt, Peter Gauhe. Overview: A simple, delicate, melodramatic German film about a loneliness. With a double moral story about the tainted love between an old woman and a younger Moroccan immigrant worker. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Romance. Country: Germany. Runtime: 1h 33m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 Autumn Sonata 1978 Höstsonaten Director: Ingmar Bergman. Cast: Ingrid Bergman, Liv Ullmann, Lena Nyman, Halvar Björk, Marianne Aminoff, Arne Bang-Hansen. Overview: The story of a celebrated classical pianist who is confronted by her neglected daughter. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie. Countries: Germany, France, Sweden. Runtime: 1h 39m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Barry Lyndon 1975 Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Ryan O'Neal, Marisa Berenson, Hardy Krüger, Diana Körner, Frank Middlemass, Arthur O'Sullivan, Godfrey Quigley, Patrick Magee, Steven Berkoff, Gay Hamilton, Marie Kean, Murray Melvin, André Morell, Leonard Rossiter, Leon Vitali. Overview: In the Eighteenth Century, in a small village in Ireland, Redmond Barry is a young farm boy in love with his cousin Nora Brady. When Nora engages to the British Captain John Quin, Barry challenges him for a duel of pistols. He wins and escapes to Dublin, but is robbed on the road. Without any other alternative, Barry joins the British Army to fight in the Seven Years War. Genres: Drama, Romance, War. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 4m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Manhattan 1979 Woody Allen's New Comedy Hit Director: Woody Allen. Cast: Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Michael Murphy, Mariel Hemingway, Meryl Streep, Anne Byrne Hoffman, Karen Ludwig, Michael O'Donoghue, Wallace Shawn, Tisa Farrow, Charles Levin, Karen Allen, David Rasche, Mark Linn-Baker, Frances Conroy. Overview: The life of a divorced television writer dating a teenage girl is further complicated when he falls in love with his best friend's mistress. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 Aguirre: The Wrath of God 1972 Aguirre, der Zorn Gottes Director: Werner Herzog. Cast: Klaus Kinski, Helena Rojo, Del Negro, Ruy Guerra, Peter Berling, Cecilia Rivera, Edward Roland, Daniel Ades, Armando Polanah, Alejandro Repulles. Overview: A few decades after the destruction of the Inca empire, a Spanish expedition leaves the mountains of Peru and goes down the Amazon river in search of gold and wealth. Soon, they come across great difficulties and Don Aguirres, a ruthless man who cares only about riches, becomes their leader. But will his quest lead them to "the golden city", or to certain destruction Genres: Adventure, Drama, Foreign, Indie. Countries: Germany, Peru. Runtime: 1h 33m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 Patton 1970 Director: Franklin J. Schaffner. Cast: George C. Scott, Karl Malden, Stephen Young, Michael Strong. Overview: "Patton" tells the tale of General George S. Patton, famous tank commander of World War II. The film begins with patton's career in North Africa and progresses through the invasion of Germany and the fall of the Third Reich. Side plots also speak of Patton's numerous faults such his temper and habit towards insubordination. Genres: Action, Drama, History, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 52m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 The Exorcist 1973 The Scariest Film of All Time. Director: William Friedkin. Cast: Ellen Burstyn, Jason Miller, Max von Sydow, Lee J. Cobb, Kitty Winn, Linda Blair, William O'Malley, Jack MacGowran, Barton Heyman, Peter Masterson, Rudolf Schündler, Robert Symonds, Titos Vandis, Donna Mitchell, Robert Gerringer. Overview: Regan MacNeil, a 12-year-old girl living in Georgetown with her mother Chris, begins to adapt an explicit new personality as strange events befall the local area. Chris becomes torn between science and superstition in a desperate bid to save her daughter, and ultimately turns to her last hope: Father Damien Karras, a troubled priest who is struggling with his own faith after the death of his mother. Genre: Horror. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Rocky 1976 His whole life was a million-to-one shot. Director: John G. Avildsen. Cast: Sylvester Stallone, Talia Shire, Burt Young, Carl Weathers, Burgess Meredith, Thayer David, Joe Spinell, Jimmy Gambina, Bill Baldwin, Al Silvani, George Memmoli, Jodi Letizia, Diana Lewis, George O'Hanlon, Larry Carroll. Overview: A small time boxer gets a once in a lifetime chance to fight the heavyweight champ in a bout in which he strives to go the distance for his self-respect. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 A Woman Under the Influence 1974 Director: John Cassavetes. Cast: Peter Falk, Gena Rowlands, Fred Draper, Lady Rowlands, Katherine Cassavetes, Matthew Laborteaux. Overview: Peter Falk is a blue collar man trying to deal with his wife's mental instability. He fights to keep a semblance of normality in the face of her bizarre behavior, but when her actions affect their children, he has her committed Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 35m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 The Conversation 1974 Director: Francis Ford Coppola. Cast: Gene Hackman, John Cazale, Frederic Forrest, Cindy Williams, Harrison Ford, Teri Garr, Allen Garfield, Elizabeth MacRae. Overview: The Conversation is a Francis Ford Coppola thriller from 1974 about a professional surveillance man who is hired to record the conversations between two workers. Yet it looks like he’s gotten into more than he’s getting paid for as information about a murder may have been recorded. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 All the President's Men 1976 Director: Alan J. Pakula. Cast: Dustin Hoffman, Robert Redford, Jack Warden, Martin Balsam, Hal Holbrook, Jane Alexander, Meredith Baxter, Ned Beatty, Jason Robards, Stephen Collins, Penny Fuller, John McMartin, Robert Walden, David Arkin, Henry Calvert. Overview: All the President’s Men is a political thriller from director Alan J. Pakula based on the Watergate scandal and starring Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 18m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 Day for Night 1973 La nuit Américaine Director: François Truffaut. Cast: Jacqueline Bisset, Jean-Pierre Léaud, Jean-Pierre Aumont, Valentina Cortese, Dani, Alexandra Stewart, François Truffaut, Jean Champion, Nike Arrighi, David Markham, Bernard Menez, Jean-François Stévenin, Walter Bal, Gaston Joly, Zénaïde Rossi. Overview: A committed film director struggles to complete his movie while coping with a myriad of crises, personal and professional, among the cast and crew. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Foreign. Countries: France, Italy. Runtime: 1h 55m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Cries and Whispers 1972 Viskningar och rop Director: Ingmar Bergman. Cast: Harriet Andersson, Ingrid Thulin, Kari Sylwan, Liv Ullmann. Overview: When a woman dying of cancer in turn-of-the century Sweden is visited by her two sisters, long repressed feelings between the siblings rise to the surface. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: Sweden. Runtime: 1h 31m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Harold and Maude 1971 Director: Hal Ashby. Cast: Ruth Gordon, Bud Cort, Cyril Cusack, Charles Tyner, Ellen Geer, Eric Christmas, G. Wood, Judy Engles, Shari Summers, Vivian Pickles. Overview: The young Harold lives in his own world of suicide-attempts and funeral visits to avoid the misery of his current family and home environment. Harold meets an 80-year-old woman named Maude who also lives in her own world yet one in which she is having the time of her life. When the two opposites meet they realize that their differences don’t matter and they become best friends and love each other. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 31m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 Papillon 1973 Director: Franklin J. Schaffner. Cast: Steve McQueen, Dustin Hoffman, Woodrow Parfrey, Robert Deman, Anthony Zerbe, Victor Jory, Don Gordon, Bill Mumy. Overview: A man befriends a fellow criminal as the two of them begin serving their sentence on a dreadful prison island, which inspires the man to plot his escape. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 25m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 Dawn of the Dead 1978 When there's no more room in hell, the dead will walk the earth. Director: George A. Romero. Cast: David Emge, Ken Foree, Scott H. Reiniger, Gaylen Ross, David Crawford, David Early, Richard France, Howard Smith, Daniel Dietrich, Fred Baker, James A. Baffico, Rod Stouffer, Jese Del Gre, Clayton McKinnon, John Rice. Overview: During an ever-growing epidemic of zombies that have risen from the dead, two Philadelphia SWAT team members, a traffic reporter, and his television-executive girlfriend seek refuge in a secluded shopping mall. Genre: Horror. Countries: Italy, United States of America, Japan. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 Being There 1979 Getting there is half the fun; being there is all of it! Director: Hal Ashby. Cast: Peter Sellers, Shirley MacLaine, Melvyn Douglas, Jack Warden. Overview: A simple-minded gardener named Chance has spent all his life in the Washington D.C. house of an old man. When the man dies, Chance is put out on the street with no knowledge of the world except what he has learned from television. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 Young Frankenstein 1974 The scariest comedy of all time! Director: Mel Brooks. Cast: Gene Wilder, Marty Feldman, Madeline Kahn, Cloris Leachman, Kenneth Mars, Richard Haydn, Peter Boyle, Teri Garr. Overview: Mel Brooks takes on the classic horror flick in this comedic retelling of the Frankenstein story. Genres: Comedy, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 Days of Heaven 1978 Director: Terrence Malick. Cast: Richard Gere, Brooke Adams, Linda Manz, Sam Shepard. Overview: In 1910, a Chicago steel worker accidentally kills his supervisor and flees to the Texas panhandle with his girlfriend and little sister to work harvesting wheat in the fields of a stoic farmer. A love triangle, a swarm of locusts, a hellish fire—Malick captures it all with dreamlike authenticity, creating at once a timeless American idyll and a gritty evocation of turn-of-the-century labor. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 34m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 The Enigma of Kaspar Hauser 1974 Kaspar Hauser - Jeder für sich und Gott gegen alle Director: Werner Herzog. Cast: Bruno S., Walter Ladengast, Brigitte Mira, Willy Semmelrogge, Volker Prechtel, Herbert Achternbusch, Kidlat Tahimik. Overview: The film follows Kaspar Hauser (Bruno S.), who lived the first seventeen years of his life chained in a tiny cellar with only a toy horse to occupy his time, devoid of all human contact except for a man who wears a black overcoat and top hat who feeds him. Genres: Drama, History, Foreign. Country: Germany. Runtime: 1h 50m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Solaris 1972 Solyaris Director: Andrei Tarkovsky. Cast: Natalya Bondarchuk, Jüri Järvet, Anatoli Solonitsyn, Vladislav Dvorzhetsky, Nikolai Grinko, Sos Sargsyan, Olga Barnet, Tamara Ogorodnikova, Georgi Tejkh, Donatas Banionis. Overview: Ground control has been receiving strange transmissions from the three remaining residents of the Solaris space station. When cosmonaut and psychologist Kris Kelvin is sent to investigate, he experiences the strange phenomena that afflict the Solaris crew, sending him on a voyage into the darkest recesses of his own consciousness. Based on the novel by the same name from Polish author Stanislaw Lem. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie, Science Fiction. Country: Russian Federation. Runtime: 2h 47m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie 1972 Le Charme discret de la bourgeoisie Director: Luis Buñuel. Cast: Fernando Rey, Delphine Seyrig, Paul Frankeur, Bulle Ogier, Stéphane Audran, Jean-Pierre Cassel, Julien Bertheau, Claude Piéplu, Michel Piccoli, François Maistre, Pierre Maguelon, Milena Vukotic, Maria Gabriella Maione, Muni, Georges Douking. Overview: A surreal, virtually plotless series of dreams centered around six middle-class people and their consistently interrupted attempts to have a meal together. Genres: Comedy, Foreign. Countries: Spain, France, Italy. Runtime: 1h 41m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 The Man Who Would Be King 1975 Director: John Huston. Cast: Sean Connery, Michael Caine, Christopher Plummer, Saeed Jaffrey, Doghmi Larbi, Jack May, Karroom Ben Bouih, Mohammad Shamsi, Albert Moses, Paul Antrim. Overview: The Man Who Would Be King is an adventure film from John Huston starring Sean Connery and Michael Caine. The film is based on the novel by Rudyard Kipling and describes the history of two adventurers in British Indian at the end of the 19th Century. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama. Countries: United States of America, United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 9m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 The Mirror 1975 Zerkalo Director: Andrei Tarkovsky. Cast: Margarita Terekhova, Oleg Yankovskiy, Larisa Tarkovskaya, Alla Demidova, Ignat Daniltsev, Nikolai Grinko, Yuriy Nazarov, Filipp Yankovsky, Tamara Ogorodnikova. Overview: A man in his forties is going to die and remembers his past. His childhood, his mother, the war, personal moments but things that also tell the story of all the Russian nation. Genres: Documentary, Drama, Foreign, Indie. Country: Russian Federation. Runtime: 1h 46m. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
