#ThisURL#
http://www.mckinsey.com/terms-of-use
#SubURL#
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/paper-and-forest-products/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/risk/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/china
http://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/middle-east-and-africa
http://www.mckinsey.com/contact-us
http://www.mckinsey.com/privacy-policy
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/pharmaceuticals-and-medical-products/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/india
https://www.youtube.com/mckinsey
http://www.mckinsey.com/Insights/rss.aspx
http://www.mckinsey.com/quarterly/overview
https://twitter.com/McKinsey
https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/id674902075?mt=8
https://www.facebook.com/mckinsey
https://www.linkedin.com/company/mckinsey-&-company
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mckinsey.mckinseyinsights
#Title#
Terms of use | McKinsey & Company
#Content#
Skip to main content Toggle Menu McKinsey & Company Home What's new at McKinsey? Responding to the global refugee crisis Find a location Sign in Toggle search field McKinsey & Company Home Industries Industries Advanced Electronics Aerospace & Defense Automotive & Assembly Chemicals Consumer Packaged Goods Electric Power & Natural Gas Financial Services Healthcare Systems & Services High Tech Infrastructure Media & Entertainment Metals & Mining Oil & Gas Paper & Forest Products Pharmaceuticals & Medical Products Private Equity & Principal Investors Public Sector Retail Semiconductors Social Sector Telecommunications Travel, Transport & Logistics Read our featured insights Business Functions Business Functions Analytics Business Technology Digital Implementation Learning Programs for Clients Marketing & Sales Operations Organization Recovery & Transformation Services Risk Strategy & Corporate Finance Sustainability & Resource Productivity Read our featured insights Global Themes Global Themes Timely Topics Regions Digital Disruption Employment and Growth Leadership Long-term Capitalism Urbanization Winning in Emerging Markets Women Matter Americas Asia-Pacific China Europe India Middle East and Africa Read our featured insights Careers Careers Overview Our work Our people and values Your growth at McKinsey Your career Join us FAQs About us About us Overview Who we are What we do Media center Alumni New at McKinsey blog Featured McKinsey Global Institute Our mission is to help leaders in multiple sectors develop a deeper understanding of the global economy. McKinsey Quarterly Our flagship business publication has been defining and informing the senior-management agenda since 1964. McKinsey Solutions Our solutions help clients generate the insights needed to make better, faster decisions. Toggle search field Find a location Sign In Search Terms of use McKinsey & Company and its affiliates ("McKinsey" or "we") provides its content on mckinsey.com (the "Site") subject to the following terms and conditions (the "Terms"). We may periodically change the Terms, so please check back from time to time. These Terms were last updated on January 1, 2011. By accessing and using this Site, you agree to these Terms. For an explanation of McKinsey's practices and policies related to the collection, use, and storage of our users' information, please read our privacy policy. 1. Copyrights All content and functionality on the Site, including text, graphics, logos, icons, and images and the selection and arrangement thereof, is the exclusive property of McKinsey or its licensors and is protected by U.S. and international copyright laws. All rights not expressly granted are reserved. 2. Trademarks The trademarks, service marks, designs, and logos (collectively, the "Trademarks") displayed on the Site are the registered and unregistered Trademarks of McKinsey and its licensors. You agree that you will not refer to or attribute any information to McKinsey or its licensors in any public medium (e.g., press release, websites) for advertising or promotion purposes, or for the purpose of informing or influencing any third party and that you will not use or reproduce any Trademark of, or imply any endorsement by or relationship with, McKinsey or its licensors. 3. Use of site content McKinsey hereby grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable license for the term hereof to access and download, display, and print one copy of the content and functionality displayed on the Site (the "Site Content") on any single computer solely for your internal, business use, provided that you do not modify the Site Content in any way and that you retain all copyright and other proprietary notices displayed on the Site Content. You may not otherwise reproduce, modify, distribute, transmit, post, or disclose the Site Content without McKinsey's prior written consent. 4. User postings You acknowledge and agree that McKinsey shall own and have the unrestricted right to use, publish, and otherwise exploit any and all information that you post or otherwise publish on the Site in postings, survey responses, and otherwise, and you hereby waive any claims against McKinsey for any alleged or actual infringements of any rights of privacy or publicity, moral rights, or rights of attribution in connection with McKinsey's use and publication of such submissions. You covenant that you shall not post or otherwise publish on the Site any materials that (a) are threatening, libelous, defamatory, or obscene; (b) would constitute, or that encourage conduct that would constitute, a criminal offense, give rise to civil liability, or otherwise violate law; (c) infringe the intellectual property, privacy, or other rights of any third parties; (d) contain a computer virus or other destructive element; (e) contain advertising; or (f) constitute or contain false or misleading statements. McKinsey does not and cannot review all information posted to the Site by users and is not responsible for such information. However, McKinsey reserves the right to refuse to post and the right to remove any information, in whole or in part, for any reason or for no reason. 5. Notices of infringement and takedown by McKinsey McKinsey prohibits the posting of any information that infringes or violates the copyright rights and/or other intellectual property rights (including rights of privacy and publicity) of any person or entity. If you believe that your intellectual property right (or such a right that you are responsible for enforcing) is infringed by any content on the Site, please write to McKinsey at the address shown below, giving a written statement that contains: (a) identification of the copyrighted work and/or intellectual property right claimed to have been infringed; (b) identification of the allegedly infringing material on the Site that is requested to be removed; (c) your name, address, and daytime telephone number, and an e-mail address if available; (d) a statement that you have a good faith belief that the use of the copyrighted work and/or exercise of the intellectual property right is not authorized by the owner, its agent, or the law; (e) a statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and, under penalty of perjury, that the signatory is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the right that is allegedly infringed; and (f) the signature of the intellectual property right owner or someone authorized on the owner's behalf to assert infringement of the right. McKinsey will remove any posted submission that infringes the copyright or other intellectual property right of any person under U.S. law upon receipt of such a statement (or any statement in conformance with 17 U.S.C. 512(c)(3)). U.S. law provides significant penalties for submitting such a statement falsely. Under appropriate circumstances, persons who repeatedly submit infringing or unlawful material will be prohibited from posting further submissions. McKinsey's contact for submission of notices under this Section 5 is: Legal Department, McKinsey & Company, Inc., 55 East 52nd Street, New York, New York 10022. 6. Disclaimers THE CONTENT AND FUNCTIONALITY ON THE SITE IS PROVIDED WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT MCKINSEY IS NOT HEREIN ENGAGED IN RENDERING PROFESSIONAL ADVICE AND SERVICES TO YOU. ALL CONTENT AND FUNCTIONALITY ON THE SITE IS PROVIDED "AS IS," WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. MCKINSEY AND ITS THIRD-PARTY CONTENT PROVIDERS MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE OWNERSHIP, ACCURACY, OR ADEQUACY OF THE SITE CONTENT. MCKINSEY SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INFORMATION PUBLISHED ON LINKED WEBSITES, CONTAINED IN ANY USER SUBMISSIONS PUBLISHED ON THE SITE, OR PROVIDED BY THIRD PARTIES. NEITHER MCKINSEY NOR ITS THIRD-PARTY CONTENT PROVIDERS SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OR FOR LOST REVENUES OR PROFITS, WHETHER OR NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR LOSSES AND REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY. 7. Third-party websites We may provide links to third-party websites, and some of the content appearing to be on this Site is in fact supplied by third parties, for example, in instances of framing of third-party websites or incorporation through framesets of content supplied by third-party servers. McKinsey has no responsibility for these third-party websites, which are governed by the Terms of Use and privacy policies, if any, of the applicable third-party content providers. 8. Governing law; jurisdiction These Terms are governed by the laws of the State of New York without reference to the principles of conflicts of laws thereof. McKinsey & Company Logo Sign up for email alerts Select topics and stay current with our latest insights Email address LinkedIn Twitter Facebook YouTube RSS Contact us FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use Local language information McKinsey Insights - Get our latest thinking on your iPhone, iPad, or Android device. © 1996-2016 McKinsey & Company McKinsey Insights App Our latest thinking at your fingertips. Anytime. Anywhere. Download the app or continue to site
