#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Online_PhD_Programs_in_Integrative_Medicine.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/Top_Schools_for_Naturopathic_Medicine.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
http://study.com/articles/Alternative_Medicine_How_to_Become_an_Acupressure_Technician.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Medical_and_Health_Professions/Alternative_Medicine/Hypnotherapy.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Online PhD Programs in Integrative Medicine
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Medical and Health Professions  /  Alternative Medicine  /  Alternative and Complementary Medicine Medical and Health Professions Alternative Medicine Acupuncture and Acupressure Herbalist Homeopathic Medicine Hypnotherapy Movement Therapies Naturopathic Medicine Polarity Therapy Traditional Eastern Medicine and Herbology Yoga Therapy and Instructor Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Glossary of Online Graduate Degrees...  /  Medical and Health Professions  /  Online PhD Programs in Integrative... Online PhD Programs in Integrative Medicine Find out about online integrative medicine courses and in which programs they're most commonly offered. Get course descriptions, program info and online requirements to make an informed decision. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) programs in integrative medicine are rare to begin with, and they're seldom offered in an online format. Even in online programs, in-person residency periods are required. This article looks at the University of Arizona's online program in detail. To become a physician, one must earn a Medical Doctor (M.D.) or Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.) degree from an accredited U.S. medical school, then earn professional licensure. The specific requirements for licensure vary by state, so check for state-specific requirements before choosing an educational program. Online Availability Rare Programs Available Fellowship In-Person Requirements Campus residencies University of Arizona's Integrative Medicine Fellowship This fellowship program is designed specifically for working professionals, such as a nurses, physicians or physician's assistants. The program is designed to advance students' knowledge of natural medicine and the integration of natural disease prevention with Western medicine principles of diagnosis and treatment. Students learn about the importance of exercise, nutrition, herbal medicine and relaxation in the prevention of health problems. The program features an integrative perspective on pediatrics, cancer treatments, cardiovascular health, respiratory health and alternative treatment methods like Ayurveda and homeopathy. In addition, the integration of mind and body is taught through methods like meditation. Information and Requirements The University of Arizona offers one of the only online integrative medicine programs available in the country. There are other schools, such as the University of Wisconsin - Madison that partner with the University of Arizona. This program can be completed in around two years. Students must attend a week-long residency program three times during the program. Students are taught through podcasts and online video lectures. Communication is possible to instructors through e-mail. Students must have a computer with access to the Internet. It is helpful to have an updated Web browser and operating system. Common Courses Nutrition and Cardiovascular Health This course focuses on lifestyle and diet as a viable prevention of heart disease. Students gain an understanding of different patients' health needs and how to adapt a specific nutritional plan to prevent and reverse cardiovascular damage. Cardiovascular health problems include high blood pressure, congestive heart failure, hyperlipidemia and the metabolic syndrome. Ayurveda Students learn about the historical significance and philosophy of Ayurvedic medicine in relation to it's country of origin, India, and the United States. The course also covers the effectiveness and assessment of treatments using Ayurvedic principles. Mental Health The mental health course focuses on the diagnosis and alternative medical treatments of mood disorders. The course emphasizes depression and anxiety and students are expected to be able to design an appropriate integrative treatment plan. Career Information for Graduates The degree program is intended for working professionals who want to maintain their respective practice and use the acquired knowledge to care for patients from a more holistic approach. A nutritionist is a relevant career choice, but traditionally only requires a bachelor's degree. According the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), employment of all physicians and surgeons (not including naturopathic physicians) is expected to grow by 14%, faster than the average for all occupations, between 2014 and 2024 (www.bls.gov). The BLS projected job growth of 17% for health diagnosing and treating practitioners during the same decade, and nutritionists and dietitians could also expect above-average job growth of 16%. Students who have completed the integrative medicine fellowship can act as specialist physicians and treat prospective patients accordingly, provided they have already met all the requirements for working as licensed physicians. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Online PhD Programs in Integrative Medicine RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Alternative Medicine Professions Video: Starting a Career in Alternative Medicine Nuclear Medicine Career Video: Becoming a Nuclear Medicine Technologist Degree in Integrative Medicine Integrative Medicine Universities Career in Integrative Medicine Phd Medicine Iridology Medicine Phd Adult Education Programs for Integrative Medicine Integrative medical training is available not only at natural and alternative healing centers, but also at traditional... Integrative Medicine Certification and Certificate Program Info Integrative medicine studies are available through post-bachelor's certificate programs. These programs explore how to heal the... PhD in Integrative Medicine: Doctoral Degree Info Doctors of integrative medicine are trained to provide patients with therapeutic treatments designed to affect their physical,... Job Growth in the Next Decade: Practical Medicine Given the United States' recent economic troubles, it may seem odd to talk about job growth. Yet according to the U.S. Bureau... Top Schools for Naturopathic Medicine Herbal Medicine Phd Sports Medicine Phd Alternative Medicine: Overview for Becoming an Acupuncture Technician Alternative Medicine: How to Become an Acupressure Technician Sports Medicine - Athletic Trainer: Career Education Overview Distance Learning Masters Degree in Nonprofit Management Veterinary Assistant: Online Diploma Organizational Communication Degree Program Information Behavior Specialist: Salary, Requirements and Duties Alternative Medicine: How to Become an Ayurveda Practitioner Sports Medicine Certification Information Online Travel Agent Degree Program Information Game Designer: Job Info and Requirements for Becoming a Game Designer Forensic Scientist: How Do I Start a Career in Forensic Science? Medical Administrative Certificate Insurance Specialist Program Overview Anthropology Majors Information and Requirements Associate in Specialized Business Legal Office Administration Degree Overview Distance Learning Certificates in Disaster Management Lactation Consultant Training and Certification Program Overviews Bachelor of Fine Arts BFA Fashion Marketing and Design Degree Overview Degree Program to Be a Network Engineer Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Psychology in Clinical Specialization Doctor of Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Colorado Technical University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Management in Health Care Management & Leadership Get Started with Colorado Technical University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate No HS Diploma/No GED 4Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA) Doctor of Nursing Practice - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5University of Pennsylvania School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Pennsylvania include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: First Professional Certificate, Post Master's Certificate, Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Medical and Health Professions Dental Medical Administrative Services Medical Ethics and Bioethics Medical Residency Programs Mental Health Services Nursing Professions Public Health and Safety Veterinary Medicine and Clinical Sciences Get Started with University of Pennsylvania Research University of Pennsylvania's Programs & Degrees 6Harvard University School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at Harvard University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Medical and Health Professions Dental Medical and Health Preparatory Sciences Medical Residency Programs Public Health and Safety Get Started with Harvard University Research Harvard University's Programs 7Utica College School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Transitional Doctorate of Physical Therapy Get Started with Utica College What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8Duke University School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at Duke University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Bachelor Medical and Health Professions Medical Diagnostic and Treatment Professions Medical Residency Programs Nursing Professions Therapeutic and Rehabilitation Professions Get Started with Duke University Research Duke University's Degree Programs 9Stanford University School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at Stanford University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Medical and Health Professions Medical Administrative Services Medical Informatics and Illustration Medical Residency Programs Get Started with Stanford University Research Stanford University's Degree Programs 10University of Notre Dame School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Notre Dame include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Medical and Health Professions Medical and Health Preparatory Sciences Get Started with University of Notre Dame Research University of Notre Dame's Degree Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Alternative Medicine Chiropractor Clinical Laboratory Science Professions Communication Disorders Sciences Dental Health and Fitness Massage and Related Therapeutic Professions Medical Administrative Services Medical and Health Preparatory Sciences Medical Assisting Medical Diagnostic and Treatment Professions Medical Ethics and Bioethics Medical Informatics and Illustration Medical Residency Programs Mental Health Services Nursing Professions Nutrition Services Optometric and Ophthalmic Services Osteopathic Medicine - DO Pharmaceutical Sciences and Administration Podiatry - DPM Public Health and Safety Therapeutic and Rehabilitation Professions Veterinary Medicine and Clinical Sciences Select your specialty subject area Acupuncture and Acupressure Alternative and Complementary Medicine Herbalist Homeopathic Medicine Hypnotherapy Movement Therapies Naturopathic Medicine Polarity Therapy Traditional Eastern Medicine and Herbology Yoga Therapy and Instructor What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Grand Canyon University EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2 University of the Rockies Doctor of Psychology in Clinical Specialization Doctor of Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Colorado Technical University Doctor of Management in Health Care Management & Leadership Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No 4 Walden University Doctor of Healthcare Administration (DHA) Doctor of Nursing Practice - General What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5 University of Pennsylvania 6 Harvard University 7 Utica College Transitional Doctorate of Physical Therapy What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8 Duke University 9 Stanford University 10 University of Notre Dame Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
