#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 2000-2009 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 2000-2009 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 The Dark Knight 2008 Why So Serious? Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Christian Bale, Heath Ledger, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Aaron Eckhart, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, Michael Caine, Eric Roberts, Michael Jai White, James Smith, Monique Gabriela Curnen, Ron Dean, Cillian Murphy, Chin Han, Ritchie Coster. Overview: Batman raises the stakes in his war on crime. With the help of Lt. Jim Gordon and District Attorney Harvey Dent, Batman sets out to dismantle the remaining criminal organizations that plague the streets. The partnership proves to be effective, but they soon find themselves prey to a reign of chaos unleashed by a rising criminal mastermind known to the terrified citizens of Gotham as the Joker. Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Fantasy, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 32m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King 2003 The eye of the enemy is moving. Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Orlando Bloom, John Rhys-Davies, Sean Astin, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Hugo Weaving, Bernard Hill, Andy Serkis, Miranda Otto, David Wenham, Karl Urban. Overview: Aragorn is revealed as the heir to the ancient kings as he, Gandalf and the other members of the broken fellowship struggle to save Gondor from Sauron's forces. Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam bring the ring closer to the heart of Mordor, the dark lord's realm. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 21m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 City of God 2002 Cidade de Deus If you run you're dead...if you stay, you're dead again. Period. Directors: Fernando Meirelles, Kátia Lund, Lamartine Ferreira, Isabella Teixeira, Malu Miranda. Cast: Alexandre Rodrigues, Leandro Firmino, Phellipe Haagensen, Douglas Silva, Jonathan Haagensen, Matheus Nachtergaele, Seu Jorge, Jefechander Suplino, Alice Braga, Roberta Rodrigues, Luis Otávio, Darlan Cunha. Overview: City of God is one of the most successful Brazilian films of all times. It depicts the raw violence in the ghettos of Rio de Janeiro in the 1970’s that even had young kids carrying guns and joining gangs when they should be playing hide-and-seek. Genres: Crime, Drama, Foreign. Country: Brazil. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring 2001 One ring to rule them all Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Orlando Bloom, John Rhys-Davies, Sean Bean, Christopher Lee, Sean Astin, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Hugo Weaving, Cate Blanchett, Ian Holm, Craig Parker. Overview: Young hobbit Frodo Baggins, after inheriting a mysterious ring from his uncle Bilbo, must leave his home in order to keep it from falling into the hands of its evil creator. Along the way, a fellowship is formed to protect the ringbearer and make sure that the ring arrives at its final destination: Mt. Doom, the only place where it can be destroyed. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 58m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers 2002 A New Power Is Rising. Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Orlando Bloom, John Rhys-Davies, Christopher Lee, Sean Astin, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Hugo Weaving, Craig Parker, Bernard Hill, Andy Serkis, Brad Dourif. Overview: Frodo and Sam are trekking to Mordor to destroy the One Ring of Power while Gimli, Legolas and Aragorn search for the orc-captured Merry and Pippin. All along, nefarious wizard Saruman awaits the Fellowship members at the Orthanc Tower in Isengard. Genres: Action, Adventure, Fantasy. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 59m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 Memento 2001 Some memories are best forgotten. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Guy Pearce, Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe Pantoliano, Mark Boone Junior, Russ Fega, Jorja Fox, Stephen Tobolowsky, Harriet Sansom Harris, Thomas Lennon, Callum Keith Rennie, Kimberly Campbell, Marianne Muellerleile, Larry Holden, Buzz Visconti. Overview: Suffering short-term memory loss after a head injury, Leonard Shelby embarks on a grim quest to find the lowlife who murdered his wife in this gritty, complex thriller that packs more knots than a hangman's noose. To carry out his plan, Shelby snaps Polaroids of people and places, jotting down contextual notes on the backs of photos to aid in his search and jog his memory. He even tattoos his own body in a desperate bid to remember. Genres: Crime, Drama, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 Spirited Away 2001 Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi The tunnel led Chihiro to a mysterious town... Director: Hayao Miyazaki. Cast: Rumi Hîragi, Miyu Irino, Mari Natsuki, Takashi Naitô, Yasuko Sawaguchi, Tatsuya Gashuin, Ryunosuke Kamiki, Yumi Tamai. Overview: Spirited Away is an Oscar winning Japanese animated film about a ten year old girl who wanders away from her parents along a path that leads to a world ruled by strange and unusual monster-like animals. Her parents have been changed into pigs along with others inside a bathhouse full of these creatures. Will she ever see the world how it once was? Genres: Animation, Family, Fantasy. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 5m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 The Lives of Others 2006 Das Leben Der Anderen Before the Fall of the Berlin Wall, East Germany's Secret Police Listened to Your Secrets. Director: Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck. Cast: Martina Gedeck, Ulrich Mühe, Sebastian Koch, Ulrich Tukur, Thomas Thieme, Hans-Uwe Bauer, Volkmar Kleinert, Matthias Brenner, Bastian Trost, Charly Hübner, Herbert Knaup, Marie Gruber, Hinnerk Schönemann, Thomas Arnold, Ludwig Blochberger. Overview: The tragic love story in the East Berlin with the backdrop of an undercover Stasi controlled culture. Stasi captain Wieler is ordered follow author Dreyman and plunges deeper and deeper into his life until he reaches the threshold of doubting the system. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Country: Germany. Runtime: 2h 17m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 Amélie 2001 Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amélie Poulain One person can change your life forever. Director: Jean-Pierre Jeunet. Cast: Audrey Tautou, Rufus, Jamel Debbouze, Claire Maurier, Isabelle Nanty, Dominique Pinon, Artus de Penguern, Yolande Moreau, Lorella Cravotta, Serge Merlin, Clotilde Mollet, Urbain Cancelier, Maurice Bénichou. Overview: Jean-Pierre Jeunet brings us the fabulous world of Amélie in his colorful film about a quirky, shy girl with an inquisitive mind and an active imagination. Audrey Tautou glows as a charming cafe girl on a mission to uncover a mystery and find true love. Jeunet delivers a glowing view of a Paris full of amiable eccentrics, with the few truly mean people receiving comedic punishment in full view. Genres: Comedy, Foreign, Romance. Countries: Germany, France. Runtime: 2h 9m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 The Pianist 2002 Director: Roman Polanski. Cast: Adrien Brody, Thomas Kretschmann, Frank Finlay, Maureen Lipman, Emilia Fox, Ed Stoppard, Julia Rayner, Jessica Kate Meyer, Michał Żebrowski, Wanja Mues, Richard Ridings, Nomi Sharron, Detlev von Wangenheim, Krzysztof Pieczynski. Overview: The Pianist is a film adapted from the biography of Wladyslaw Szpilman. A Jewish-Polish pianist who during the second world war lived and hid miraculously in Warsaw after having gone through a terrible tragedy. A film from Roman Polanski. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Countries: Germany, France, United Kingdom, Poland. Runtime: 2h 30m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Wall·E 2008 An adventure beyond the ordinar-E. Director: Andrew Stanton. Cast: Ben Burtt, Elissa Knight, Jeff Garlin, MacInTalk, John Ratzenberger, Sigourney Weaver, Kathy Najimy, Fred Willard. Overview: WALL-E is the last robot left on an Earth that has been overrun with garbage and all humans have fled to outer space. For 700 years he has continued to try and clean up the mess, but has developed some rather interesting human-like qualities. When a ship arrives with a sleek new type of robot, Wall-E thinks he's finally found a friend and stows away on the ship when it leaves. Genres: Animation, Adventure, Family, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 44m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 The Departed 2006 Lies. Betrayal. Sacrifice. How far will you take it? Director: Martin Scorsese. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Jack Nicholson, Mark Wahlberg, Matt Damon, Dick Hughes, Ray Winstone, Anthony Anderson, Alec Baldwin, David O'Hara, Vera Farmiga, Kevin Corrigan, James Badge Dale, Robert Wahlberg, Kristen Dalton, Thomas B. Duffy. Overview: To take down South Boston's Irish Mafia, the police send in one of their own to infiltrate the underworld, not realizing the syndicate has done likewise in Martin Scorsese's multiple Oscar-winning crime thriller. While an undercover cop curries favor with the mob kingpin, a career criminal rises through the police ranks. But both sides soon discover there's a mole among them. Genres: Drama, Action, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 31m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 Requiem for a Dream 2000 Director: Darren Aronofsky. Cast: Ellen Burstyn, Jared Leto, Jennifer Connelly, Marlon Wayans, Christopher McDonald, Louise Lasser. Overview: The hopes and dreams of four ambitious people are shattered when their drug addictions begin spiraling out of control. A look into addiction and how it overcomes the mind and body. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind 2004 I already forget how I used to feel about you. Director: Michel Gondry. Cast: Jim Carrey, Kate Winslet, Elijah Wood, Mark Ruffalo, Kirsten Dunst, Tom Wilkinson, Ryan Whitney, Jane Adams, Debbon Ayer, David Cross, Gerry Robert Byrne, Brian Price, Josh Flitter, Paul Litowsky, Lola Daehler. Overview: A man, Joel Barish, heartbroken that his girlfriend Clementine underwent a procedure to erase him from her memory, decides to do the same. However, as he watches his memories of her fade away, he realizes that he still loves her, and may be too late to correct his mistake. Genres: Science Fiction, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 The Prestige 2006 Are You Watching Closely? Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Hugh Jackman, Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Scarlett Johansson, Andy Serkis, David Bowie, Piper Perabo, Rebecca Hall. Overview: A mysterious story of two magicians whose intense rivalry leads them on a life-long battle for supremacy -- full of obsession, deceit and jealousy with dangerous and deadly consequences. Genres: Drama, Fantasy, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Pan's Labyrinth 2006 El Laberinto del Fauno What happens when make-believe believes it's real? Director: Guillermo del Toro. Cast: Ivana Baquero, Maribel Verdú, Sergi López, Doug Jones, Ariadna Gil, Álex Angulo, Roger Casamajor. Overview: Pans Labyrinth is the exquisitely produced fantasy film from Mexican director Guillermo del Toro who is actually famous for his works in science-fiction and horror. The film stars a little girl lost in a fantasy world. The film won three Academy Awards in 2007. Genres: Drama, Fantasy, Foreign, Science Fiction. Countries: Spain, Mexico, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Downfall 2004 Der Untergang April 1945, a nation awaits its...Downfall Director: Oliver Hirschbiegel. Cast: Bruno Ganz, Alexandra Maria Lara, Corinna Harfouch, Ulrich Matthes, Juliane Köhler, Heino Ferch, Christian Berkel, Thomas Kretschmann, Ulrich Noethen, Birgit Minichmayr, Rolf Kanies, Justus von Dohnanyi, Michael Mendl, André Hennicke, Christian Redl. Overview: In April of 1945, Germany stands at the brink of defeat with the Russian Army closing in from the east and the Allied Expeditionary Force attacking from the west. In Berlin, capital of the Third Reich, Adolf Hitler proclaims that Germany will still achieve victory and orders his Generals and advisers to fight to the last man. "Downfall" explores these final days of the Reich, where senior German leaders (such as Himmler and Goring) began defecting from their beloved Fuhrer, in an effort to save their own lives, while still others (Joseph Goebbels) pledge to die with Hitler. Hitler, himself, degenerates into a paranoid shell of a man, full of optimism one moment and suicidal depression the next. When the end finally does comes, and Hitler lies dead by his own hand, what is left of his military must find a way to end the killing that is the Battle of Berlin, and lay down their arms in surrender. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History, War. Countries: Austria, Germany, Italy, Russian Federation. Runtime: 2h 36m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 Oldboy 2003 Oldeuboi 15 years of imprisonment... 5 days of vengeance. Director: Chan-wook Park. Cast: Choi Min-sik, Ji-tae Yu, Dae-han Ji, Byeong-ok Kim, Tae-kyung Oh, Il-han Oo, Jin-seo Yun, Dal-su Oh, Hye-jeong Kang. Overview: Oldboy is the revenge drama from Director Park Chan-wook. Based on a Manga comic it depicts the suffering path of a man who must deal with the never ending torment of having unknowingly made someone his enemy. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Countries: Korea, New Zealand. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Gladiator 2000 Father of a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife and I shall have my vengeance in this life or the next Director: Ridley Scott. Cast: Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, Oliver Reed, Richard Harris, Derek Jacobi, Djimon Hounsou, David Schofield, John Shrapnel, Tomas Arana, Ralf Moeller, Tommy Flanagan, Spencer Treat Clark, David Hemmings, Sven-Ole Thorsen. Overview: Gladiator is an epic film of love, death and betrayal set in the Roman Empire. General Maximus' success in battle earns the favour of an elderly Emperor at the expense of the Emperor's son. In a fit of jealous rage the son slays his father before turning his anger towards Maximus. Now reduced to a slave, his family dead, Maximus must fight as a Gladiator to gain his freedom, and his revenge. Genres: Action, Drama, History, Adventure. Countries: United Kingdom, Morocco, Malta, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 35m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 Inglourious Basterds 2009 Once upon a time in Nazi occupied France... Director: Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Brad Pitt, Christoph Waltz, Mélanie Laurent, Diane Kruger, Mike Myers, Michael Fassbender, Samuel L. Jackson, Eli Roth, Til Schweiger, B.J. Novak, Gedeon Burkhard, Omar Doom, Samm Levine, Paul Rust, Michael Bacall. Overview: In Nazi-occupied France during World War II, a group of Jewish-American soldiers known as "The Basterds" are chosen specifically to spread fear throughout the Third Reich by scalping and brutally killing Nazis. The Basterds, lead by Lt. Aldo Raine soon cross paths with a French-Jewish teenage girl who runs a movie theater in Paris which is targeted by the soldiers. Genres: Adventure, Drama, Action, Thriller, War. Countries: Germany, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 33m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 Up 2009 Directors: Pete Docter, Bob Peterson. Cast: Edward Asner, Christopher Plummer, Jordan Nagai, Bob Peterson, Delroy Lindo, Josh Cooley, John Ratzenberger, David Kaye, Jeremy Leary, Elie Docter, Mickie McGowan, Danny Mann, Donald Fullilove, Jess Harnell, Jerome Ranft. Overview: After a lifetime of dreaming of traveling the world, 78-year-old homebody Carl flies away on an unbelievable adventure with Russell, an 8-year-old Wilderness Explorer, unexpectedly in tow. Together, the unlikely pair embarks on a thrilling odyssey full of jungle beasts and rough terrain. Genres: Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Gran Torino 2008 Ever come across somebody you shouldn't have messed with? Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Clint Eastwood, Cory Hardrict, John Carroll Lynch, Geraldine Hughes, Brian Haley, Dreama Walker, Doua Moua, Brian Howe, Sarah Neubauer, Lee Mong Vang, Nana Gbewonyo, Christopher Carley, Bee Vang, John Anton, Austin Douglas Smith. Overview: Walt Kowalski, an iron-willed and inflexible Korean War veteran living in a changing world, is forced by his immigrant neighbors to confront his long-held prejudices. Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 56m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 The Best of Youth 2003 La Meglio Gioventú Director: Marco Tullio Giordana. Cast: Luigi Lo Cascio, Alessio Boni, Adriana Asti, Sonia Bergamasco, Fabrizio Gifuni, Maya Sansa, Jasmine Trinca, Valentina Carnelutti, Andrea Tidona, Lidia Vitale, Claudio Gioè, Paolo Bonanni, Mario Schiano, Giovanni Scifoni. Overview: Spanning four decades, from the chaotic 1960s to the present, director Marco Tullio Giordana's passionate epic 'La Meglio Gioventu' follows two Italian brothers through some of the most tumultuous events of recent Italian history. Genre: Drama. Country: Italy. Runtime: 6h 6m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Sin City 2005 There is no justice without sin. Directors: Frank Miller, Robert Rodriguez, Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Bruce Willis, Mickey Rourke, Clive Owen, Jessica Alba, Elijah Wood, Josh Hartnett, Jaime King, Rutger Hauer, Benicio Del Toro, Rosario Dawson, Michael Clarke Duncan, Devon Aoki, Alexis Bledel, Powers Boothe, Marley Shelton. Overview: The first of three films based on the beautiful comic world of Frank Miller. Sin City depicts the comic book almost page for page with its heavy contrast black and white extremely violent and graphic imagery. Sin City is set in a dangerous and dark Basin City where corruption, sex and violence is everyday life. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 Batman Begins 2005 Evil fears the knight. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Christian Bale, Liam Neeson, Michael Caine, Katie Holmes, Gary Oldman, Cillian Murphy, Rutger Hauer, Mark Boone Junior, Ken Watanabe, Linus Roache, Richard Brake, Sara Stewart, Tim Booth, Rena Sofer, Tom Wilkinson. Overview: Bruce Wayne has watched his home, Gotham City, turn into a crime infested abyss throughout his entire life, so he decides to become the hero Gotham needs- Batman! Genres: Action, Adventure, Crime, Fantasy, Science Fiction, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 Hotel Rwanda 2004 When the world closed its eyes, he opened his arms. Director: Terry George. Cast: Don Cheadle, Nick Nolte, Sophie Okonedo, Joaquin Phoenix, Jean Reno, Ofentse Modiselle, Mathabo Pieterson, Neil McCarthy, Desmond Dube, Hakeem Kae-Kazim, Tony Kgoroge, Fana Mokoena, Lebo Mashile, Antonio David Lyons, Leleti Khumalo. Overview: Inspired by true events this film takes place in Rwanda in the 1990’s when more than a million Tutsis’ were killed in a Genocide that went mostly unnoticed by the rest of the world. Hotel owner Paul Rusesabagina houses over a thousand refuges in his hotel in attempt to save their lives. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Countries: United Kingdom, Italy, United States of America, South Africa. Runtime: 2h 1m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 No Country for Old Men 2007 There are no clean getaways. Directors: Ethan Coen, Joel Coen. Cast: Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem, Josh Brolin, Woody Harrelson, Kelly Macdonald, Garret Dillahunt, Tess Harper, Barry Corbin, Stephen Root, Rodger Boyce, Beth Grant, Ana Reeder, Kit Gwin, Zach Hopkins. Overview: Llewelyn Moss stumbles upon dead bodies, $2 million and a hoard of heroin in a Texas desert, but methodical killer Anton Chigurh comes looking for it, with local sheriff Ed Tom Bell hot on his trail. The roles of prey and predator blur as violent pursuits of money and justice collide. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 The Secret in Their Eyes 2009 El Secreto De Sus Ojos Director: Juan José Campanella. Cast: Ricardo Darín, Soledad Villamil, Pablo Rago, Javier Godino, Guillermo Francella. Overview: A man wants to solve a murder committed many years ago. Genres: Crime, Drama, Foreign, Mystery, Romance. Countries: Argentina, Spain. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Snatch 2000 Stealin' Stones and Breakin' Bones. Director: Guy Ritchie. Cast: Jason Statham, Brad Pitt, Stephen Graham, Vinnie Jones, Alan Ford, Dennis Farina, Rade Šerbedžija, Robbie Gee, Lennie James, Benicio Del Toro, Mike Reid, Jason Flemyng, Andy Beckwith, William Beck, Ewen Bremner. Overview: The is second film from British director Guy Ritchie. Snatch tells an obscure story similar to his first fast paced crazy character colliding filled film “Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels.” The film has two overlapping stories– one is the search for a stolen diamond and the other about a boxing promoter who’s having trouble with a psychotic gangster. Genres: Action, Comedy, Foreign, Thriller, Crime. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 44m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Slumdog Millionaire 2008 What does it take to find a lost love? A. Money B. Luck C. Smarts D. Destiny Directors: Loveleen Tandan, Danny Boyle. Cast: Anil Kapoor, Mia Drake Inderbitzin, Dev Patel, Saurabh Shukla, Rajendranath Zutshi, Jeneva Talwar, Freida Pinto, Irrfan Khan. Overview: The story of the life of an impoverished Indian teen Jamal Malik, who becomes a contestant on the Hindi version of "Who Wants to be A Millionaire?", wins, and is then suspected of cheating. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie, Romance. Countries: India, United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 Donnie Darko 2001 You can never go too far. Director: Richard Kelly. Cast: Jake Gyllenhaal, Patrick Swayze, Drew Barrymore, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Holmes Osborne, Daveigh Chase, Mary McDonnell, James Duval, Arthur Taxier, Mark Hoffman, Patience Cleveland, David St. James, Jazzie Mahannah, Jolene Purdy, Beth Grant. Overview: A troubled teenager is plagued by visions of a large bunny rabbit that manipulates him to commit a series of crimes, after narrowly escaping a bizarre accident. Genres: Drama, Thriller, Science Fiction, Mystery. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 Into the Wild 2007 Your great adventure on Alaska. Director: Sean Penn. Cast: Emile Hirsch, Marcia Gay Harden, William Hurt, Jena Malone, Brian H. Dierker, Catherine Keener, Vince Vaughn, Hal Holbrook, Thure Lindhardt, Signe Egholm Olsen, Cheryl Francis Harrington, Kristen Stewart. Overview: Based on a true story. After graduating from Emory University in 1992, top student and athlete Christopher McCandless abandoned his possessions, gave his entire $24,000 savings account to charity and hitchhiked to Alaska to live in the wilderness. Along the way, Christopher encounters a series of characters who shape his life. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 28m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 Kill Bill Vol. 1 2003 Go for the kill Director: Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Uma Thurman, Lucy Liu, David Carradine, Michael Madsen, Daryl Hannah, Vivica A. Fox, Michael Parks, Chiaki Kuriyama, Sonny Chiba, Julie Dreyfus, Jun Kunimura, Kazuki Kitamura, Akaji Maro, Chia Hui Liu, Ambrosia Kelley. Overview: An assassin is shot at the altar by her ruthless employer, Bill, and other members of their assassination circle. But "The Bride" lives to plot her vengeance. Setting out for some payback, she makes a death list and hunts down those who wronged her, saving Bill for last. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Countries: Japan, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 51m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Mary and Max 2009 Director: Adam Elliot. Cast: Toni Collette, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Eric Bana, Barry Humphries, Bethany Whitmore, Renée Geyer. Overview: A tale of friendship between two unlikely pen pals: Mary, a lonely, eight-year-old girl living in the suburbs of Melbourne, and Max, a forty-four-year old, severely obese man living in New York.In the mid-1970's, a homely, friendless Australian girl of 8 picks a name out of a Manhattan phone book and writes to him; she includes a chocolate bar. She's Mary Dinkle, the only child of an alcoholic mother and a distracted father. He's Max Horowitz, living alone in New York, overweight, subject to anxiety attacks. He writes back, with chocolate. Thus begins a 20-year correspondence, interrupted by a stay in an asylum and a few misunderstandings. Mary falls in love with a neighbor, saves money to have a birthmark removed and deals with loss. Max has a friendship with a neighbor, tries to control his weight, and finally gets the dream job. Will the two ever meet face to face? Genres: Animation, Comedy, Drama, Foreign, Indie. Country: Australia. Runtime: 1h 20m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 Amores perros 2000 Love. Betrayal. Death. Director: Alejandro González Iñárritu. Cast: Gael García Bernal, Vanessa Bauche, Goya Toledo, Alvaro Guerrero, Emilio Echevarría, Jorge Salinas, Rodrigo Murray, Humberto Busto, Gerardo Campbell, Rosa María Bianchi, Dunia Saldívar, Adriana Barraza, José Sefami, Lourdes Echevarría, Marco Pérez. Overview: In Mexico City the lives and stories of three people become tied up in an intense Oscar winning film. Valeria and El Chivo have one thing in common: their souls stimulate them towards a relationship with their dogs. Amores Perros is the first film in Iñárritu's "Death Trilogy". Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie, Thriller. Country: Mexico. Runtime: 2h 33m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 There Will Be Blood 2007 There Will Be Greed. There Will Be Vengeance. Director: Paul Thomas Anderson. Cast: Daniel Day-Lewis, Paul Dano, Dillon Freasier, Ciarán Hinds, Kevin J. O'Connor, Hope Elizabeth Reeves, Colleen Foy, Barry Del Sherman, David Willis, Hans Howes, Sydney McCallister. Overview: When Daniel Plainview - a ruthless oil prospector - learns of oil-rich land in California that can be bought cheaply, he moves his operation there and begins manipulating and exploiting the local landowners into selling him their property. Using his young adopted son H.W. to project the image of a caring family man, Plainview gains the cooperation of almost all the locals with lofty promises to build schools and cultivate the land to make their community flourish. Over time, Plainview's gradual accumulation of wealth and power causes his true self to surface, and he begins to slowly alienate himself from everyone in his life. Genres: Drama, Indie, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 38m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 Million Dollar Baby 2004 Beyond his silence, there is a past. Beyond her dreams, there is a feeling. Beyond hope, there is a memory. Beyond their journey, there is a love. Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank, Morgan Freeman, Jay Baruchel, Mike Colter, Brían F. O'Byrne, Lucia Rijker, Anthony Mackie, Margo Martindale, Riki Lindhome, Michael Peña. Overview: Despondent over a painful estrangement from his daughter, trainer Frankie Dunn isn't prepared for boxer Maggie Fitzgerald to enter his life. But Maggie's determined to go pro -- and to convince Dunn and his cohort to help her. Genres: Drama, Sports Film. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 17m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 District 9 2009 You are not welcome here. Director: Neill Blomkamp. Cast: William Allen Young, Robert Hobbs, Sharlto Copley, Jason Cope, Vanessa Haywood, Kenneth Nkosi, Nathalie Boltt, Sylvaine Strike, Elizabeth Mkandawie, John Sumner, Greg Melvill-Smith, Nick Blake, Morena Busa Sesatsa, Themba Nkosi, Mzwandile Nqoba. Overview: Aliens land in South Africa and have no way home. Years later after living in a slum and wearing out their welcome the "Non-Humans" are being moved to a new tent city overseen by Multi-National United (MNU). The movie follows an MNU employee tasked with leading the relocation and his relationship with one of the alien leaders. Genres: Action, Thriller, Science Fiction, Foreign. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America, Canada, South Africa. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Philanthropy 2002 Filantropica Director: Nae Caranfil. Cast: Mircea Diaconu, Gheorghe Dinica, Mara Nicolescu. Overview: Ovidiu, a high-school teacher looking for an extra buck, finds an unexpected way to earn easy money. Countries: Romania, France. Runtime: 1h 50m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 My Sassy Girl 2001 Yeopgijeogin geunyeo Director: Jae-young Kwak. Cast: Tae-hyun Cha, Gianna Jun, Jin-hie Han, Sook-hee Hyun, Il-woo Kim, In-mun Kim, Tae-hyeon Kim, Mu-yeong Lee, Ho Lim, Dong-won Seo, Kwang-eop Son, Wok-suk Song, Geum-Seok Yang, Jae-young Kwak. Overview: Based on a series of true stories posted by Ho-sik Kim on the Internet describing his relationship with his girlfriend. These were later transformed into a best-selling book and the movie follows the book closely. It describes the meeting of Kyun-woo (Cha) and an unnamed girl. Kyun-woo is shamed into assisting the girl because the other passengers mistakenly think she is his girlfriend. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: Korea. Runtime: 2h 3m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 Memories of Murder 2003 Salinui chueok Director: Joon-ho Bong. Cast: Kang-ho Song, Sang-kyung Kim, Roe-ha Kim, Jae-ho Song. Overview: Based on the true story of the country's first known serial murders, which took place between 1986 and 1991 in Hwaseong, Gyeonggi Province, the movie begins with a series of raped and murdered women. Two bumbling, incompetent local detectives realizes a serial killer is on the loose and begins to chase after the murderer. Genres: Crime, Drama, Foreign, Thriller. Country: Korea. Runtime: 2h 7m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 Finding Nemo 2003 There are 3.7 trillion fish in the ocean, they're looking for one. Directors: Andrew Stanton, Lee Unkrich. Cast: Alexander Gould, Albert Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres, Brad Garrett, Allison Janney, Andrew Stanton, Elizabeth Perkins, Barry Humphries, Bill Hunter, Willem Dafoe. Overview: A tale which follows the comedic and eventful journeys of two fish, the fretful Marlin and his young son Nemo, who are separated from each other in the Great Barrier Reef when Nemo is unexpectedly taken from his home and thrust into a fish tank in a dentist's office overlooking Sydney Harbor. Buoyed by the companionship of a friendly but forgetful fish named Dory, the overly cautious Marlin embarks on a dangerous trek and finds himself the unlikely hero of an epic journey to rescue his son. Genres: Animation, Family, Comedy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 The Wrestler 2008 Love. Pain. Glory. Director: Darren Aronofsky. Cast: Evan Rachel Wood, Marisa Tomei, Mickey Rourke, Ajay Naidu, Judah Friedlander, Dylan Keith Summers. Overview: Mickey Rourke stars as retired professional wrestler Randy "The Ram" Robinson, who returns to the ring to work his way up the circuit for a final shot at defeating his longtime rival. Along the way, he tries to reconnect with his estranged daughter while exploring a relationship with an aging stripper named Cassidy. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 49m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 The Bourne Ultimatum 2007 Remember everything. Forgive nothing. Director: Paul Greengrass. Cast: Matt Damon, Joan Allen, Paddy Considine, Julia Stiles, David Strathairn, Édgar Ramírez, Corey Johnson, Scott Glenn, Albert Finney, Tom Gallop, Daniel Brühl, Joey Ansah, Colin Stinton. Overview: Bourne is brought out of hiding once again by reporter Simon Ross who is trying to unveil Operation Blackbriar, an upgrade to Project Treadstone, in a series of newspaper columns. Information from the reporter stirs a new set of memories, and Bourne must finally uncover his dark past while dodging The Company's best efforts to eradicate him. Genres: Action, Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Countries: United States of America, Germany. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 Tae Guk Gi: The Brotherhood of War 2004 Taegukgi hwinalrimyeo Director: Je-gyu Kang. Cast: Dong-gun Jang, Bin Won, Eun-ju Lee, Hyeong-jin Kong, Yeong-ran Lee, Kil-Kang Ahn, Jin Jung, Jae-hyeong Jeon, Min-ho Jang, Yun-hie Jo, Min-sik Choi, Do-Hee Go, Taek-ha Hwang, Dae-Hoon Jeong, Doo-hong Jung. Overview: In 1950, in South Korea, shoe-shiner Jin-tae Lee and his 18-year-old old student brother, Jin-seok Lee, form a poor but happy family with their mother, Jin-tae's fiancé Young-shin Kim, and her young sisters. Jin-tae and his mother are tough workers, who sacrifice themselves to send Jin-seok to the university. When North Korea invades the South, the family escapes to a relative's house in the country, but along their journey, Jin-seok is forced to join the army to fight in the front, and Jin-tae enlists too to protect his young brother. The commander promises Jin-tae that if he gets a medal he would release his brother, and Jin-tae becomes the braver soldier in the company. Along the bloody war between brothers, the relationship of Jin-seok with his older brother deteriorates leading to a dramatic and tragic end. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Foreign, History, War. Country: Korea. Runtime: 2h 20m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 The Diving Bell And The Butterfly 2007 Le scaphandre et le papillon Director: Julian Schnabel. Cast: Mathieu Amalric, Emmanuelle Seigner, Marie-Josée Croze, Anne Consigny, Patrick Chesnais, Niels Arestrup, Olatz López Garmendia, Jean-Pierre Cassel, Marina Hands, Max von Sydow, Isaach De Bankole, Emma de Caunes, Jean-Philippe Écoffey, Gérard Watkins, Nicolas Le Riche. Overview: Elle France editor Jean-Dominique Bauby, who, in 1995 at the age of 43, suffered a stroke that paralyzed his entire body, except his left eye. Using that eye to blink out his memoir, Bauby eloquently described the aspects of his interior world, from the psychological torment of being trapped inside his body to his imagined stories from lands he'd only visited in his mind. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie. Countries: France, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Departures 2008 おくりびと Director: Yôjirô Takita. Cast: Masahiro Motoki, Tsutomu Yamazaki, Ryoko Hirosue, Kazuko Yoshiyuki, Kimiko Yo, Takashi Sasano. Overview: Daigo, a cellist, is laid off from his orchestra and moves with his wife back to his small hometown where the living is cheaper. Thinking he’s applying for a job at a travel agency he finds he’s being interviewed for work with departures of a more permanent nature – as an undertaker’s assistant. Genre: Drama. Country: Japan. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 Swades 2004 Director: Ashutosh Gowariker. Cast: Shahrukh Khan, Gayatri Joshi, Kishori Balal, Smith Seth, Lekh Tandon, Rajesh Vivek, Daya Shankar Pandey, Farrukh Jaffar. Overview: Set in modern day India, Swades is a film that tackles the issues that development throws up on a grass root level. It is to this India, which is colorful, heterogeneous and complex that Mohan Bhargava (Shah Rukh Khan), a bright young scientist working as a project manager in NASA, returns on a quest to find his childhood nanny. Genres: Drama, Eastern, Foreign. Countries: India, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 30m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring 2003 Bom yeoreum gaeul gyeoul geurigo bom Director: Kim Ki-Duk. Cast: Oh Young, Kim Ki-Duk, Kim Young-min, Seo Jae-kyung, Ha Yeo-jin, Kim Jong-ho, Kim Jung-young, Dae-han Ji, Choi Min, Park Ji-a, Song Min-young. Overview: This South Korean film depicts the life of the ever overwhelming course of nature in the changing seasons. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Countries: Germany, Korea. Runtime: 1h 43m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 V for Vendetta 2006 People should not be afraid of their governments. Governments should be afraid of their people. Director: James McTeigue. Cast: Natalie Portman, Hugo Weaving, Stephen Rea, Stephen Fry, John Hurt, Tim Pigott-Smith, Natasha Wightman, Rupert Graves, Roger Allam, Ben Miles, Sinéad Cusack, John Standing, Eddie Marsan, Clive Ashborn, Emma Field-Rayner. Overview: Set against the futuristic landscape of a totalitarian Britain, the movie tells the story of a mild-mannered young woman named Evey who is rescued from a life-and-death situation by a man known only as “V” – a striking figure in a black cloak and a high-peaked hat under which he wears a curious mask. Incomparably charismatic and ferociously skilled in the art of combat and deception, V ignites a revolution when he urges his fellow citizens to rise up against tyranny and oppression. Genres: Action, Drama, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: Germany, United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: R. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
