#ThisURL#
http://www.environmentalscience.org/careers/environmental-policy-and-planning
#SubURL#
http://www.environmentalscience.org/degree/environmental-chemistry
http://www.environmentalscience.org/careers/environmental-policy-and-planning
http://www.environmentalscience.org/privacy-policy
http://www.environmentalscience.org/degree/environmental-microbiology
http://www.environmentalscience.org/degree/gis
http://www.environmentalscience.org/degree/applied-economics
https://www.careerwebsite.com/r/login/login.cfm?site_id=21984
http://www.environmentalscience.org/career/environmental-lobbyist
http://www.environmentalscience.org/degree/fire-science
http://www.environmentalscience.org/career/environmental-policy-analyst
http://www.environmentalscience.org/degree/geoscience
https://twitter.com/EnvironSciOrg
https://www.facebook.com/environmentalscienceorg
http://jobs.environmentalscience.org
https://www.careerwebsite.com/c/login/login.cfm?site_id=21984
https://plus.google.com/+EnvironmentalscienceOrg2014
http://www.pinterest.com/environmentsci
#Title#
Careers in Environmental Policy & Planning | EnvironmentalScience.org
#Content#
About Us Resources Internships Scholarships Environmental Science Education Environmental Science Degree Environmental Biology Degree Environmental Biotechnology Degree Environmental Chemistry Degree Environmental Engineering Degree Environmental Geoscience Degree Environmental Microbiology Degree Environmental Psychology Degree Geographic Information Systems Degree Sustainability Degree Environmental Studies Degree Environmental Policy Degree Environmental Accounting Degree Environmental Economics Degree Environmental Education Degree Environmental MBA Degree Applied Economics Degree MBA in Sustainability and Compliance Degree Environmental Planning & Design Degree Environmental Sociology Degree Environmental Law and Firefighters Criminal Justice Degree Emergency Management Degree Environmental Management Degree Environmental Law Degree Fish & Wildlife Management Degree Fire Science Degree Forestry Degree Homeland Security Degree Online Environmental Science Degree Public Health Degree Environmental Health Degree Environmental Toxicology Degree Health Administration Degree Top Environmental Science Schools Environmental Science Careers Agriculture & Forestry Careers Environmental Policy & Planning Careers Sustainability Careers & Green Jobs Public Health Careers Environmental Jobs Job Seeker Login Employer Login Environmental Policy & Planning Careers Environmental Policy and Planning are fast-growing fields that largely deal with the administrative aspects of environmental preservation and management. However, both career paths are involved in different parts of the process. The Environmental Policy field centers around the alternation of public policy and social institutions that influence the way we manage the environment and our natural resources. By researching scientific data and current legislation Environmental Policy makers create new laws and legal standards that will better serve shifting environmental demands. Environmental Planning careers create programs that use land more efficiently with minimal damage to the surrounding environment. They often focus on the use of natural resources and attempt to predict any risks or problems that may arise, and then create plans to combat these risks. Employment Conditions Most careers in Environmental Policy and Environmental Planning involve spending a lot of time in an office environment reading, researching, planning, and collaborating with co-workers. However, some Environmental Planning jobs involve the oversight or implementation of building programs, meaning that you may have to spend some of your time outdoors - possibly in adverse weather conditions. Typically careers in Environmental Policy and Environmental Planning require a Masters degree, though there are certainly some exceptions to this generalization. Some of the top employers of those specializing in Environmental Policy and Environmental Planning are various government agencies. However, nonprofits, corporations, and politicians may also require their services. It's important to note that critical thinking, computer skills, and communication skills are fine traits to possess if you're looking for a career in Environmental Policy and Environmental Planning. Job Outlook The job outlook for Environmental Policy and Environmental Planning careers is fantastic. Both fields are projected to grow faster than average, largely due to the astronomical population growth, worsening environmental conditions, the rapid development of sustainable technologies, and the constant reconsideration of environmental policies. Career Options There are many different career options in the Environmental Policy and Planning field. Though most involve a large amount of office work, each career focuses on different aspects of the policy-making and planning processes. Learn more about environmental policy degrees and education. Jump to Careers in Environmental Policy and Planning Environmental Accountant Environmental Economist Environmental Educator Environmental Lawyer Environmental Lobbyist Environmental Planner Environmental Policy Analyst Environmental Remediator Environmental Sociologist Land Use Planner Surveyor Cartographer Transportation Engineer Urban Planner Wildlife Educator Salary Comparison Tool Search and compare the salaries of various environmental science careers around the United States by city and state. All salary data is sourced from BLS.gov. Select Career Type Select Career Accountants and Auditors Biological Science Teachers, Postsecondary Cartographers and Photogrammetrists Civil Engineers Economists Elementary School Teachers, Except Special Education Environmental Engineering Technicians Environmental Scientists and Specialists, Including Health Lawyers Political Scientists Sociologists Urban and Regional Planners Select State Select State Select City Select City Environmental Accountant Are you interested in changing the way companies do business? Over the past few decades we've learned much about the environmental costs of business as usual. Environmental accountants, who determine environmental costs and performance, can help improve business decisions and operations so that they tread more lightly on the earth. When reported to governments, the calculations of environmental accountants can even be helpful in shaping future regulations. If you enjoy math, want to make a difference, and desire to be part of an evolving specialty on the cutting edge of your field, a career in environmental accounting may be for you. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Accountant >>> Environmental Economist We’ve all heard the perspective that it’s one or the other – the economy or the environment; these two needs are in direct conflict. Or are they? Environmental economists attempt to integrate both of these needs to reduce the environmental impacts of economic activity and develop sustainable economic policies.  With both recognition of environmental degradation and human population rising, economic approaches to problem solving are increasingly important. Whether it’s analyzing the job growth potential of the Keystone XL pipeline, or the economic toll of the Deepwater Horizon disaster off the coast of Louisiana, environmental economists play a key role in understanding how our activities affect the planet, and how we can make them greener. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Economist >>> Environmental Educator A 2005 book by Richard Louv entitled Last Child in the Woods coined the term "nature deficit disorder", referring to the trend where children now spend much more time indoors with gadgets than playing outside in nature. Louv hypothesizes that this trend has led to widespread behavior problems such as ADD and ADHD. While the connection remains unproven, it's undeniable that many children are now growing up without developing a relationship with nature. Environmental educators teach children about nature, often outdoors. They aim to foster an affinity for nature and the knowledge to protect it in the next generation. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Educator >>> Environmental Lawyer Environmental lawyers are lawyers that specialize in legal disputes relating to the environment. They commonly work at both the individual and corporate level, resolving disputes that span across widespread issues: pollution, biodiversity, land tenure, hazardous waste, biodiversity, or climate change. Environmental law initially arose out of the common-law of nuisance, in which a nuisance arises when one person uses their private property in such a way that it significantly and adversely impacts the rights of others in the immediate area. From this, a vast array of environmental laws has arisen, ranging anywhere from conventional environmental nuisance law to working with national governments to establish international legislation on carbon dioxide emission caps. Environmental lawyers require the formal training of a law degree (attainment of a Juris Doctorate degree), but may specialize in environmental law depending on the program to which they attend. As sustainability issues increase globally, there is expected to be higher environmental lawyer involvement in advising on sustainable and green practices at the corporate or industry level, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions. While employment for environmental lawyers will increase over the next few decades, competition will remain high due to law school graduates continuing to exceed the number of available jobs. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Lawyer >>> Environmental Lobbyist Environmental lobbyists work solely to influence politicians to vote for legislation that acts in the environment’s favor. The ways in which this is achieved is primarily through (1) directly meeting with the politician and providing them with the necessary information to influence them or help them derive a decision, and (2) organizing grassroots-type events that spur the public and influence the voice of their representative politician. As lobbyists are commonly involved with legislation that has been recently passed or is in development, a large component of their day-to-day activities revolves around research: monitoring the news, attending legislative hearings, or publishing in newspapers or other media sources to raise awareness of upcoming environment-related legislation. Typically, environmental lobbyists work long hours and must work within larger teams. One such team is the organization Greenpeace in Washington, D.C., which uses “peaceful protest and creative communication” raise awareness of environmental issues and their appropriate solutions. Environmental lobbyists are an important bridge between politicians responsible for drafting legislation, the scientists working to identify environmental issues, and the larger public. To succeed as an environmental lobbyist, one must be passionate, motivated and excel in a fast-paced environment. While there’s no formal path to a career as an environmental lobbyist, volunteering with a campaigning organization such as Greenpeace is a good introductory step into the field. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Lobbyist >>> Environmental Planner Environmental planners function similarly to environmental engineers, but are more directly involved with land use and planning in urban, suburban, and rural environments. Most significantly, environmental planners are responsible for developing both short and long-term plans for development projects at all scales. Environmental planners will commonly work with environmental consultants or environmental engineers to develop a course of action over a given time frame, and then communicate their findings to the stakeholders responsible for that area. Environmental planners must be highly interdisciplinary, as their day-to-day activities can include anything from site-auditing, creating maps or system designs, reviewing legislation and regulations, outlining time frames, or detailing project budgets. In addition, a career as an environment planner will suit individuals with strong interpersonal skills well, as work duties require strong collaboration and communication across a variety of sectors. To best prepare oneself for a career as an environmental planner, higher education training in programs such as urban planning and design, natural resource management, or sustainable development should be sought after. The prospect of working as an environmental planner is an exciting one, and will give individuals a “driver’s seat” type position in the global shift towards a more sustainable future. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Planner >>> Environmental Policy Analyst The need to realign or “reboot” our businesses, manufacturing, economy, transportation systems, cities, energy sources, homes, and lives to make them sustainable has never been clearer. How to do this is less clear. The need for answers will open up jobs for people who can research and understand the many moving pieces involved in creating good public policies. Environmental policy analysts help develop the answers that, when implemented, will help our social systems evolve. With a career in environmental policy, you can be at the forefront of creating and implementing those initiatives, developing a sustainable society and changing the world for the better. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Policy Analyst >>> Environmental Remediator There are many different Environmental Remediation careers that all involve the planning and implementation of pollution cleanup. Environmental Remediation careers are growing because of the budding Green Economy, their essential nature, and overall versatility. The Environmental Remediation field offers a wide array of jobs that are suitable for most background and education levels. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Remediator >>> Environmental Sociologist Why do some groups of people accept the scientific consensus of human-induced climate change while others don't? How do social development and changing demographics from population growth, immigration, and globalization affect the environment and our attitudes toward it? Why and how do certain groups of disadvantaged people come to be subjected to a greater degree of environmental hazards than others? Environmental sociologists study these and other social dynamics of human-environment interactions to understand the attitudes and motivations of human groups, and suggest ways to address sociological stumbling blocks to sustainability. Learn more about how to become an Environmental Sociologist >>> Land Use Planner Land Use Planners create, revise, and improve plans for land development and usage. Their plans are based on the data collected at the site and how people would like to utilize the land. They also assure that current plans are compliant with health, safety, and environmental law. They also give presentations to public officials, developers, and the community at large. It is important for a Land Use Planner to have great analytical abilities and be adept at communicating, as they may have to balance opposing interests and negotiate with others. Most Land Use Planners work for local governments, but can also be employed elsewhere. Learn more about how to become a Land Use Planner >>> Surveyor Cartographer Surveyors/Cartographers are responsible for creating the various types of maps that people use every day. Surveyors must collect geographic data with various technologies, then send this information over to a Cartographer, who utilizes the data to create maps. Surveyors spend much of their time outdoors traveling and braving adverse weather, while Cartographers spend much more time in an office environment with a computer. These two careers are vital to understanding the world we live in environmentally and geographically. Learn more about how to become a Surveyor Cartographer >>> Transportation Engineer Transport Engineers are responsible for designing various transportation systems or improving the designs of current transportation infrastructures. They also develop solutions to various transportation issues, such as heavy traffic and high accident rates. Though Transport Engineers spend the majority of their time in an office environment, they are sometimes required to supervise construction work on site. At minimum this position requires a bachelor’s degree from special programs, as well as licensure. Extensive work experience and possibly higher education may be needed for career advancement. Increasing population, aging infrastructures, and heightened demand for renewable energies will lead to a large amount of growth in this industry. Learn more about how to become a Transportation Engineer >>> Urban Planner If you’re interested in the environment, you've probably heard of LEED, a certification for "green" buildings. But you may not know about LEED for Neighborhood Development, a certification for community projects that apply green building principles at the neighborhood scale. The Dockside Green neighborhood of Victoria, British Columbia is one example. A former brownfield site and the first LEED for Neighborhood Development project in Canada, Dockside Green was planned for walkability, alternative transportation options, integrated rainwater and blackwater treatment, green roofs, greenways, reclaimed water, and more. Dockside Green isn’t alone. The growing emphasis on "smart cities" will make sustainability an integral part of future urban planning. You can help shape our future cities and bring these projects to life with a career in this exciting field. Learn more about how to become an Urban Planner >>> Wildlife Educator Wild creatures around the world are facing unprecedented pressures from human activity. Remaining populations can't be preserved without the experts who investigate specific causes of species decline and devise solutions. Wildlife also can't survive without people who care. Wildlife educators aim to inspire a love of wildlife and cultivate behaviors that help preserve wild creatures. They also hope to inspire a new generation of professional wildlife biologists. They do this by teaching in high schools and universities. Wildlife educators recruit and train the next generation of wildlife biologists and wildlife lovers, making sure they have the information needed to help conserve them. Learn more about how to become a Wildlife Educator >>> EnvironmentalScience.org © 2016 | Privacy Policy | About Us
