#ThisURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/Online_Masters_Programs_What_are_the_Most_Popular_Masters_Degrees_Offered_Online.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/articles/Associate_of_Science_AS_Animation_Degree_Overview.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://study.com/articles/Top_Schools_with_Environmental_Science_Graduate_Programs_List_of_Schools.html
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/articles/Disaster_Management_Graduate_Programs_Degree_Options.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Glossary of Master's Degree Programs
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Article Directory  /  Glossary of Master's Degree Programs Glossary of Master's Degree Programs This is a student's guide to hundreds of the most popular master's degree programs in the United States. Each of these articles provides specific information about a unique master's degree program such as required coursework and the occupational outlook. Please choose a field of study to find a more focused selection of master's degree program articles. Glossary of Master's Degree Programs organized by program: Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Other Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Agriculture   ( View 8 Articles ) Agriculture   ( View 8 Articles ) Agriculture MBA Programs: Overview of Programs An MBA in Agriculture degree is also referred to as a Master of Agribusiness or Master of Agricultural Economics degree. Education programs in this field teach students high-level business and finance management skills and how they're applied to the agricultural sector. Animal Science Graduate Programs: Overviews by Level Those interested in animal science graduate degree programs can choose from a Master of Professional Studies (MPS), Master of Science (M.S.) and Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.). In these programs, students learn about developing economical and sustainable ways to produce and process poultry, meat, milk and eggs. Equine Science Master's Degree Program Information There are only a few master's degree programs in equine (horse) science in the U.S. Students can also pursue this field through a master's program in animal science or agricultural science that includes a concentration in equine science. Food Science Graduate Program Overviews Students who are interested in a career related to the food industry can enroll in master's or doctoral degree programs in food science. The field of food science has elements of many different academic subjects, including chemical engineering and biology-related sciences. MBA in Agribusiness: Degree Program Overview A Master of Business Administration (MBA) program focusing on agribusiness can teach students how to participate in and advance the food and farming market. These programs cover conservation studies and how to preserve agrarian sources, as well as objectives and effectiveness in commercial operations, and the research of maintainable farming. View All Architecture   ( View 4 Articles ) Architecture   ( View 4 Articles ) Master of Architecture: Architecture Degree Overview Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) programs are meant for students whose undergraduate degree is in an area other than architecture or those who completed a pre-professional program in architecture. These graduate programs involve 1-2 years of study and may focus on issues like design, architectural technology and architecture history. Master of Science (MS): Architecture Degree Overview The Master of Science in Architecture incorporates lessons in research and collaboration to prepare students for thesis work and assistantships. Some programs offer students the option to individualize their curriculum by pursuing a specialization area in the field, such as history, digital design, urban design, community planning, preservation or sustainable architecture. Top Architect Masters Programs with School Info Learn about master's degree programs in architecture, which usually award a Master of Architecture (M.Arch.) or post-professional Master of Science. Read brief summaries of the programs offered by three high-profile institutions, and find a summary of other schools with graduate architectural programs. Top Landscape Architecture Masters and Graduate Programs: School List Find out which top-ranked schools offer master's degree programs in landscape architecture. See what makes these schools stand out, and decide if one of these programs might be for you. View All Biological and Biomedical Sciences   ( View 25 Articles ) Biological and Biomedical Sciences   ( View 25 Articles ) Best Biology Graduate Programs: List of Top Schools Graduate programs in biology prepare students for careers in academia, government and research, among other occupational fields. Get rankings and program details for some of the top graduate biology programs in the country. Biochemistry Master's Degree Program Overviews Students of Master of Science (M.S.) in Biochemistry degree programs examine the structure, function and biological processes of various molecules and macromolecules in intricate biological systems. Some schools integrate molecular biology or molecular genetics into their M.S. in Biochemistry degree program. Biomedical Sciences Master's Degree Program Information Graduate biomedical science degree programs are typically designed to expand on undergraduate science majors and prepare students to apply for advanced programs of study or for professional jobs. Biotechnology Management Masters Degree Program Information Master's degree programs in biotechnology management are designed to offer instruction in both biotechnology and business management, showing how business principles apply to management in this industry. While Master of Science in Biotechnology Management degree programs are available, some schools offer a Master of Business Administration/Master of Biotechnology joint degree program. Ethology Graduate Programs: Curriculum Overview Ethology is the study of animal behavior in its natural environment. While there are rarely ethology graduate programs labeled as such, many schools offer graduate programs in animal behavior. These include programs at the master's degree and doctoral levels. In this article, we'll examine both programs at both levels of study, learning about prerequisites, curriculum and career opportunities. View All Business   ( View 231 Articles ) Business   ( View 231 Articles ) Accounting & Finance MBA Degree Program Information Offering students an advanced understanding of business practices, the Master of Business Administration (MBA) is a graduate level degree offered by institutions accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). Business administration master's programs teach students to analyze economic statistics and manage human resources. Accounting Information Systems Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate certificate programs in accounting information systems teach prospective managers about the various parts of information systems as they apply to accounting, with a specific focus on accounting software. Applied Economics Masters Degree Program Information Students in an applied economics master's degree program may study economic analysis affecting private businesses, international corporations, governments and much more. Programs also include hands-on components to prepare students for the professional world. Benefits of an MBA in Finance: Overview for Aspiring Students Finance is one of the most popular specializations within Master of Business Administration (MBA) programs. An MBA in Finance offers benefits to working professionals in a variety of industries, including commercial and corporate banking, investment services and real estate. Best MIS Graduate Programs: School List Find out which top-rated schools offer master's degree programs in management information systems (MIS). See what sets these schools apart to decide if one of them is right for you. View All Communications and Journalism   ( View 56 Articles ) Communications and Journalism   ( View 56 Articles ) Advertising and Public Relations Masters Programs Higher education in advertising and public relations is primarily available as Master of Science or Master of Arts degrees or may also be found as areas of concentration within another program. In the master's degree program, students develop writing and research skills and explore the fundamentals of promotions, media development and sales. Animation Graduate Programs: Options by Degree Level Several graduate programs are available for students who are interested in studying particular aspects of animation. One common type of animation degree offered at the graduate level is a Master of Arts in Animation. Best Communication Graduate Programs: List of Top Schools Read about a couple of the best schools in the country to offer graduate-level communication programs. Go over program details for these universities and see a list of other top schools in the field. Best Writing Graduate Programs: List of Schools Learn about some of the best graduate writing programs in the country. Read about two top schools offering programs of study in this field, including their rankings and course details, so you might make an informed decision. Career and Salary Info for a Masters Degree in English A master's in English includes advanced classes in writing, editing and communications. Find out about the curricula for the master's program, and learn about career options, job outlook and salary information for English major graduates. View All Computer Sciences   ( View 60 Articles ) Computer Sciences   ( View 60 Articles ) Accredited Masters in Database Management Schools with Degree Info Master's degree programs in database management focus on the organization, storage and security of a company's information. Accredited database management graduate programs are available through several colleges and universities throughout the United States. Colleges Offering Masters Degree Programs in Networking: How to Choose Networking professionals combine computer skills training with a working knowledge of network security protocols and functions to create safe computer connections and working environments. Graduate students seeking careers as networking professionals have a variety of master's degree programs to choose from, many with numerous concentrations or areas of specialization. Colleges With a Masters in Computer Forensics: How to Choose Computer forensic science programs train students to work with digital evidence, cyber crime and electronic data. Students who want to work with government or commercial digital forensics in this field of study may want to pursue a master's degree in either computer forensics or in computer science with a computer forensics concentration. Computer Art Master's Degree Program Information Master of Fine Arts (MFA) programs in computer art are geared towards people interested in using technology to create images and designs. These programs focus on graphic design, visual design and animation, and teach creative expression as well as technical skills. Computer Graphics Masters Degree Program Info The master's degree program in computer graphics and game design is designed to develop expertise in the creation of computer animation, interactive entertainment and visual effects. View All Culinary Arts and Personal Services   ( View 3 Articles ) Culinary Arts and Personal Services   ( View 3 Articles ) Masters Degree in Food Service Management: Program Overview Master's degree programs in food service management and restaurant management are often offered through the hospitality or nutrition departments of colleges and universities. These programs cover hospitality theory, management principles, food sanitation regulations and safety considerations. Masters Degrees in Cooking and Culinary Arts: Program Information Currently, no U.S. colleges and universities offer master's degree programs in cooking and culinary arts. Programs in this field are most commonly offered at the associate degree level, although there are a few bachelor's degree programs for aspiring cooks and chefs. Masters in Food and Beverage Management: Degree Summary Many schools offer master's degree programs in hospitality management that include restaurant management or food and beverage management concentrations. A master's degree in hospitality also can include specializations in human resources, facility or operational management. View All Education   ( View 108 Articles ) Education   ( View 108 Articles ) Career and Salary Info for a Master of Education Degree Master of Education degree programs usually contain courses in school administration, curriculum and instruction and, counseling. Continue reading for an overview of the programs as well as career and salary information for some career options for graduates. Course Curriculum of a Master's Degree in Library Science Students enrolled in a master's degree program in library science take core classes before enrolling in electives for public library, school media, academic library, or other specialized tracks. Continue reading to see what kind of topics are covered in these courses. Curriculum Development Masters Degree Program Information Students in a master's degree program in curriculum and instruction gain an in-depth knowledge about instructional methods and their relationship to various learning theories. Applying assessment skills learned within the program, students use scientific research methods to generate and analyze data in order to guide the development of curricula. Educational Technology Graduate Program Options Educational Technology Programs are a comprehensive study of educational technology that involves subjects in computer science, pedagogy and psychology. A master's degree program curriculum will cover theories and techniques in educational technology and doctoral courses focus heavily on teaching adult students in a distance learning environment as well as different ways to use technology in teaching and student assessments. Graduate Courses for Teachers: Course Descriptions Graduate courses for teachers are available at several universities as part of degree or continuing education programs. Courses include teaching methods and professional conduct. View All Engineering   ( View 64 Articles ) Engineering   ( View 64 Articles ) AutoCAD Masters Degree Program Information AutoCAD is a brand of computer-aided drafting (CAD) software used for creating 2-dimensional (2-D) and 3-dimensional (3-D) designs. Since AutoCAD is a relatively narrow subject, it's only briefly covered in most degree programs, and it may not be discussed at all in master's degree programs. It is covered most extensively at the associate's degree level. Automotive Engineering Graduate Schools: How to Choose Offered at both the master's and doctoral levels, graduate programs in automotive engineering focus on technological advancements in the automotive industry and on managerial and engineering perspectives of routine vehicle maintenance. Graduate degree programs in automotive engineering are available at 4-year colleges and universities. Average Tuition Costs for Engineering Graduate School Engineering professionals develop new and innovative products and services designed to simplify and improve everyday activities. Engineering graduate schools provide students opportunities to seek advanced careers and earn higher wages. Best Telecommunications Masters Programs: List of Schools Learn about two leading engineering and communications schools that offer master's programs in telecommunications. Find out about the school rankings and program specializations that make these top schools stand out. Engineering Graduate Degree Program Options The two most common graduate engineering programs are the Master of Engineering (MEng) and the Master of Science (MS) in Engineering. Some programs require documented field work experience for admission. View All Legal   ( View 48 Articles ) Legal   ( View 48 Articles ) Corporate Security Masters Degree Program Information Corporate security masters programs are offered under a variety of program names and degree formats, including a Master of Arts in Security Management, Master of Science in Professional Security Studies and Master of Science in National Security Studies with a concentration in corporate security. These programs train individuals to predict, identify and evaluate all types of corporate security threats. Criminal Investigations Masters Degree Program Overviews Heavily based in sociological study, a master's degree program in criminology emphasizes the theoretical and practical applications of criminal behavior analysis. These programs help students understand the justice system in hopes of preventing crime. Disaster Management Graduate Programs: Degree Options Disaster management graduate degree program options include the Master of Science in Emergency Management, the Master of Science in Disaster Medicine and Management, and the Master of Public Health in Disaster Management. Programs culminate with a practicum course, applying the classroom instruction. Graduate Certificate in Security Studies: Program Information Graduate certificate programs in security studies develop students' knowledge of potential threats to national security. Threats studied may include terrorism, crime, and natural disasters. Graduate Programs in Environmental Law: Program Overviews Environmental law involves the legal policies and procedures that enforce how citizens interact with, and protect, the natural environment of the earth. Individual interested in environmental law may consider a Juris Doctor in Environmental Law (J.D.) or a Master of Laws in Environmental Law (LLM). View All Liberal Arts and Humanities   ( View 57 Articles ) Liberal Arts and Humanities   ( View 57 Articles ) Behavioral Economics Graduate Programs In behavioral economics programs, students learn how to analyze and predict the factors that influence financial-decision making in various populations through traditional coursework and research. Behavioral Economics Masters Degree Programs Behavioral economics, sometimes referred to as business decision research, combines studies in psychology and economic theory to analyze and predict consumer purchasing trends. Get information on master's degree programs that cover behavioral economics, including required classes and options for further education. Best Schools with Ancient History Graduate Programs: List of Schools Read on to learn which are the best schools offering graduate degree programs in ancient history. See what makes these schools special. Find out more about degree and program options, too. Best Schools with Cultural Anthropology Graduate Programs Find two of the best schools for earning a graduate degree in cultural anthropology. Learn about degree types and curriculum formats available at these schools. Best Schools with Graduate Programs in Philosophy: List of Schools Philosophy is the study of theoretical issues regarding knowledge, morals, logic, the brain, and existence. Read on to learn about schools where you can earn a graduate degree in philosophy. Find out what makes these schools distinctive, and see if one of these programs is right for you. View All Mechanic and Repair Technologies   ( View 9 Articles ) Mechanic and Repair Technologies   ( View 9 Articles ) Best Schools with Construction Management Graduate Programs Learn about schools offering some of the best programs in construction management that lead to graduate degrees. Read on for information about the schools, their rankings, programs, and curriculum details. Construction Masters Degree Program Information A master's degree in construction management can provide students with the skills and knowledge necessary to manage construction sites or entire construction firms. The most common graduate degree awarded in the field is the Master of Science in Construction Management. MBA in Real Estate Property Management: Program Information An MBA program in real estate management is ideal for real estate professionals looking to climb the industry ladder, or for business students hoping to start a career in real estate. Students learn the basics of real estate property appraisals, commercial transactions, residential sales, property development and property management. Master Plumber: Education Requirements and Career Overview Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a master plumber. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about training, job duties and licensing to find out if this is the career for you. Masters Degree in Air Conditioning: Program Overview While a master's degree in air conditioning is not available, air conditioning systems can be studied within several types of engineering master's degree programs. Students learn to design and develop HVAC systems for buildings. View All Medical and Health Professions   ( View 154 Articles ) Medical and Health Professions   ( View 154 Articles ) Anesthesiology Graduate Schools: How to Choose Anesthesiology is the practice of administering anesthesia and monitoring a patient during surgery. Graduate programs in anesthesiology are available at the master's level to individuals who already hold a current, valid license as a registered nurse (R.N.) and have completed a bachelor's degree in nursing. Art Therapy Graduate School Information: How to Choose a School Art therapy students learn to utilize psychoanalysis and artistic creativity as a therapeutic means to evaluate and rehabilitate patients. Graduate programs in art therapy are available as a Master of Arts in Art Therapy or a Master of Professional Studies in Art Therapy. Assistive & Rehabilitation Technology Graduate Certificate Programs Graduate certificate programs in assistive and rehabilitation technology are designed for practitioners currently working in the rehabilitation field. Such programs are most commonly offered through departments of public health or health sciences in universities. Athletic Training Graduate Programs Options Athletic trainers are experts in health and fitness, in addition to helping diagnose and treat injuries suffered by athletes. Find out about educational requirements, potential coursework, career options and certification. Best Health Science Schools for Master's Degree Students Learn about the top two schools for master's degrees in health sciences. Find out why these schools are outstanding, including their rankings and the clinical specialties they offer for healthcare professionals. View All Other   ( View 24 Articles ) Other   ( View 24 Articles ) Accelerated Masters Degree Programs: How Do They Work? Accelerated master's degrees are a condensed program that allow you to complete a master's degree in about half the time. Find more information on accelerated master's programs, how long they take and fields of study. Average Starting Salary for a Masters Degree Graduate The average starting salary for individuals with a master's degree depends on their field of study, among other factors. Keep reading to learn about some of the average starting salaries for graduates of master's degree programs in such fields as business, engineering, computer science and the humanities. GMAT Courses: Overview of GMAT Prep Courses The Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) is used by some schools to assess applicants to business-related graduate programs. This computerized, national test is used to make sure incoming students are prepared to take on the demanding curriculum of a program. Graduate Degrees in Human Services: Program Options Master's degree programs in human services accommodate a variety of interests, but generally cover an assortment of social science topics to prepare students for working in a broad range of community, health or social service organizations. Graduate-level programs in human services are only offered at a few colleges in the United States. Graduate Schools Without a GMAT Requirement: Program Overviews Schools that do not require students to submit GMAT scores usually have other admissions requirements, such as maintaining a certain grade point average and accumulating several years of on-the-job experience. Many programs also require students to hold a bachelor's degree. View All Physical Sciences   ( View 6 Articles ) Physical Sciences   ( View 6 Articles ) Graduate Programs in Fishery Management: Degree Options While enrolled in a wildlife and fisheries management master's degree program, students learn about various research methods and tools used in the field. This master's program also provides students with a strong background in ecology and natural resources management. Masters in Environmental Conservation: Program Overviews Those looking to further their careers as environmental engineers, hydrologists or geoscientists can earn a master's degree in environmental conservation. Programs in this field explore public policy, environmental science, biology and a variety of issues dealing with pollution. Masters in Environmental Studies: Program Overview Master's degree programs in environmental studies cover a variety of science topics, including geology, scientific research and environmental policy. Students often concentrate their studies in a particular area and develop their own programs of study. Sound Engineering Master's Degree Program Information Sound engineering can be found as a concentration in a recording arts and music technology degree program. These programs provide technical training in recording, producing and synchronizing sound. Top Schools with Environmental Science Graduate Programs Read about the top schools that provide environmental science graduate programs. Obtain access to university rankings, degree options and locations, and compare similarities and differences between schools. View All Psychology   ( View 40 Articles ) Psychology   ( View 40 Articles ) Behavioral Psychology Graduate Program Options Behavioral psychology is a psychological perspective that suggests that all aspects of human behavior, including acts, thoughts and feelings, are learned behavior. There are master's and doctoral programs available in this field. Business Psychology Masters Program Information Master of Arts in Industrial and Organizational Psychology programs provide training in the concepts of human behavior and its impact within an organizational context. Students in these programs examine in-depth research in the field. Counseling Psychology Graduate Program Options Master's-level students learn to assess and treat patients. They gain an understanding of individual, group and family treatment as well as addiction and trauma counseling techniques, among others. Doctoral students focus more on research. Environmental Psychology Masters Program Information Very few schools offer degree programs in environmental psychology, and most that do offer them at the doctoral level. A handful of schools offer a 2-year Master of Science in Environmental Psychology program. Five-Year Bachelor's/Master's Programs in Psychology: An Overview Psychology students interested in obtaining both a bachelor's and master's degree in only five years of study may enroll in a combined degree program. These programs may appeal to students who would like to enter the job field after graduation or pursue a doctoral program. View All Transportation and Distribution   ( View 5 Articles ) Transportation and Distribution   ( View 5 Articles ) Master of Aeronautical Science: Degree Information Master's degree programs in aeronautical science teach students about airplanes and the science that makes their flight possible. Many programs also cover the business side of aircraft and airports. Master's in Space Studies: Program Overview Several schools offer master's degree programs in space studies, both through online and on-campus programs of study. The courses explore the connection between all aspects of space exploration including technology, history, politics, legal issues and science. Masters Degree Programs in Transportation and Logistics Management Students interested in becoming distribution managers can pursue a master's degree, typically a Master of Science, in transportation and logistics management or in supply chain management; Master of Business Administration (MBA) degrees with specializations in supply chain management are also available. Masters in Aviation Law: Program Information In aviation law programs, students learn about the various regulations and policies, protocols, legal matters and issues within air transportation through traditional coursework. Top Schools with Aerospace Graduate Programs Learn about the graduate programs in aerospace engineering offered by two top national universities. Discover school ranking information and program details so you can make an informed decision. View All Visual and Performing Arts   ( View 37 Articles ) Visual and Performing Arts   ( View 37 Articles ) Art & Design Masters Degree Program Overviews Graduate students who are interested in studying art and design can enroll in a master's degree program with concentrations in fiber and surface design, media and digital imaging, animation or interior design, among others. Graduates are prepared for careers in a variety of fields, including interior, digital and visual design. Best Graduate Schools with Acting Programs: List of Schools Learn about universities offering the best graduate-level acting programs, which lead to a master's degree in the performance field. Learn about the rankings, degree program options and course offerings for quality acting graduate programs in the nation. Best Schools with Cinema Studies Graduate Programs: List of Schools Read about the best schools with cinema studies graduate programs in the nation. Get university rankings, location information and degree possibilities, and compare similarities and differences between schools to make an informed decision. Best Schools with Ethnomusicology Graduate Programs: List of Schools Ethnomusicology is a specific area of musicology that focuses on the social and cultural facets of music and dance. Learn more about what schools offer the best graduate degree programs in ethnomusicology in the US, including school locations and ranking, curriculum inclusions, and program requirements. Best Schools with Graduate Programs in Design: List of Schools Discover the graduate-level options for studying design at top schools. Research the programs, the schools, the rankings and the locations to make an informed education decision. View All Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 6Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 7University of Delaware School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity Get Started with University of Delaware What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 8Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 9Norwich University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration Online Master of Public Administration Online Master of Science in Nursing Online Master of Arts in History Online Master of Arts in International Relations Online Master of Arts in Military History Online Get Started with Norwich University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 10Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 University of the Rockies Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 6 Baker College Online MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management View more When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 7 University of Delaware M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 8 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 9 Norwich University Master of Business Administration Online Master of Public Administration Online Master of Science in Nursing Online Master of Arts in History Online Master of Arts in International Relations Online Master of Arts in Military History Online View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 10 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Show more schools… Popular Videos Pennsylvania State University Video Review More Videos Hair Stylist Video: Training Requirements to Become a Professional Hair Dresser Samford University in Homewood, AL Video Review Fashion Design, Fashion Marketing, and Fashion Merchandising Career Video Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Masters Programs in Neuroscience: Degree Program Overviews Neuroscience is the interdisciplinary science of the nervous system, drawing from a... Masters Programs in Microbiology: Degree Information Students in a master's degree program in microbiology gain an understanding of the... Teaching Masters Degree Programs Distance Learning Informatics Masters Degree Programs Online Taxation Masters Degree Programs Master's Degree Programs in Healthcare Distance Learning Journalism Master's Degree Programs Master's Degree Programs in Entrepreneurship Accredited Online College Masters Degree Programs Prerequisites for Masters Degree Programs Accelerated Masters Degree Programs: How Do They Work? Online Masters Degree Programs in Music: Program Information What Are the Most Popular Masters Degrees Offered Online? Learn about online master's degree programs. Get an overview of the program types, requirements and course descriptions available for these programs. How to Become a Teacher with a Bachelor's Degree Students generally have two options for becoming a teacher with a bachelor's degree: enroll in a teacher education program that is part of their... Production Operator: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Production operators require no formal education. Learn about the training, job duties, and certification or licensure possibilities to see if this... Associate of Science AS Animation Degree Overview Sewing Machine Technician Training Program Overviews Masters in International Taxation Program Overviews Finish Carpentry Education Cosmetologist Bachelor's Related Videos Master's Degree Details Video More Videos Distance Learning Courses and Degree Programs Video Dietician and Nutritionist Degree Programs and Career Video Foreign Language Degree Programs and Career Video Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
