#ThisURL#
http://study.com/videos/Tips_for_Submitting_Your_Resume_Video.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/foreign-language.html
http://study.com/program/Colorado_State_University_Global_BS_in_Project_Management.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Legal.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Tips for Submitting Your Resume Video
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Video Library  /  Resume Videos  /  Tips for Submitting Your Resume Video Tips for Submitting Your Resume Video Related Videos Bookkeeping Software Video: Learning and Using Quicken and Quickbooks for Bookkeepers The Basic Sections of a Resume Video How to List Your Accomplishments in a Resume Video How to Get Your Resume Noticed Video Tips for Submitting Your Resume Video Transcript Submitting your resume effectively is vital to ensuring that it is read. After completion of this video, you will understand how resume scanning software works, what it looks for, and how to submit your resume effectively. Resume Submission Guidelines Follow the instructions an employer provides exactly. Without instructions, you can still submit your resume to make sure the scanner passes it on to real people. The subject line for an emailed resume can make sure people read it. Use this to list a mutual connection you have with the company, such as your referral. Email as a Cover Letter The email window is your mini cover letter. This motivates the employer to read the rest of the email. Start a brief letter with your mutual contact and the job title. Your cover letter should have three to four bullets describing how your knowledge and experience match the job description. List your relevant experience, qualities and degrees especially if the employer has asked for them. Resume Scanners Write your resume for the software scanner, as many firms use these to select applicants for an interview. You may have to revise your resume for effective submission. Scanners look for key skill words and degree matches, usually 20 to 30 nouns key to the job listing. Your resume should use those words. Resume Submission Format Save your resume as a text document, and review it to ensure that it looks okay. You should also save it as a .doc file. Never use italics, underlines and boxes. Submit the text version in the body of the email, attaching the .doc format to the email. This will ensure that your resume is effectively submitted through scanning software. Graphics and Design Resumes These are submitted effectively as an attached Word document. You should accompany these with a cover letter in the email and label files with your name. With video resumes, you should provide links to a website. While employers rarely have time to review these, the link is there if they do. Tips for Submitting Your Resume Video Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles 8 Sources for Free Online Software Tutorials Learn about computer software with these free online courses. See the full list of free computer software courses and find the one that's... Software QA Certification and Education Program Information Software quality assurance (QA) professionals systematically test software to verify it can accomplish various tasks without... Best Free Software Downloads for Students Don't spend hundreds of dollars to get your computer ready for college. There are tons of free programs that you can download safely and... Associate of Software Engineering: Degree Overview Associate degree options for students interested in software engineering include Associate of Applied Science and Associate of... Career Information for a Degree in Software Engineering Software engineering is generally a program that trains students to design and write computer software. Continue reading for an overview... Software Qa Training Computer Software Degree Autocad Software Training Computer Software Majors Computer Software Certification Software Engineer Schools Software Testing Training Become a Software Trainer: Education and Career Roadmap Master of Science (MS): Software Engineering Degree Overview Top Ranked Software Engineering Degree - Colorado Springs, CO Top School in Morrisville, NC, for Software Development Training Software Design Education Requirements and Options What Skills Are Needed to Be a Doctor? Learn about the specific skills needed to be a doctor. These include skills learned during schooling and natural skill sets. Also, get an... PhD in Telecommunications Degree Program Overview Individuals interested in developing advanced expertise in the wide field of digital communication may seek a doctoral degree in... Executive Producer: Job Description, Duties and Requirements How to Become a Child Care Director: Step-by-Step Career Guide Online Registered Nursing Degree Programs and Courses Should I Be an Aerospace Engineer? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Online Geology Degree Program Overviews Html Degree While there are no degree programs specifically in HTML, working with this coding language is part of every degree program in computer... Guitar Amplifier Repair Training and Education Program Information Formal training for guitar amplifier repair doesn't exist; however, associate degree programs in electrical engineering technology can... Associate Degree in Womens Health Care Program Info Hotel Manager Training Bachelors in Financial Planning Program Overviews Online Masters Degree in Technical Writing Bachelor of International Business Degree Overview Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 Baker College Online Doctorate in Business Administration MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management BS in Psychology BS in Criminal Justice BBA (Accelerated Program) BS in Computer Science BS in Mobile Application Software Engineering BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Associate of Business Administration AAS in Computer Programming Associate of Business in Accounting AAS Information Technology (IT Support Specialist) Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Project Management and Planning When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 7 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Penn Foster High School Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry View more What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 9 University of Delaware M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Show more schools… Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
