#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Preschool_Teacher_How_to_Become_a_Preschool_Teacher.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Education/Teacher_Education_for_Specific_Levels_and_Methods.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Northcentral_University_Master_of_Education_-_Curriculum_Teaching.html
http://study.com/program/Saint_Josephs_University_Certification_in_Special_Education.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_a_Preschool_Teacher_Online.html
http://study.com/program/Northcentral_University_PhD_in_Education_-_Sports_Management.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Preschool Teacher: How to Become a Preschool Teacher
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Education  /  Teacher Education for Specific Levels and Methods  /  Teaching, Kindergarten and Preschool Education Teacher Education for Specific Levels and Methods Teacher Education, Multiple Levels Teaching, Adults Teaching, Elementary Teaching, High School Teaching, Junior High Teaching, Waldorf and Steiner Education Teaching, Young Children Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Glossary of Career Education Programs  /  Education  /  Preschool Teacher: How to Become a... Preschool Teacher: How to Become a Preschool Teacher Preschool teacher positions sometimes require formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and certification requirements to see if this is the right career for you. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information Preschool teachers help young learners prepare for kindergarten through interactive play and games. Employment as a preschool teacher in a public school requires a bachelor's degree. However, some childcare centers employ qualified teachers with a high school diploma and certification or an associate's degree. Additionally, a state license and Child Development Associate (CDA) certificate, and CPR and first aid certification, are often required for employment. Some employers require prior experience as an assistant teacher. What Does a Preschool Teacher Do? Preschool teachers help their students learn mainly through play and interactive activities, capitalizing on children's play to further language and vocabulary development. A preschool teacher might use storytelling and rhyming and acting games to improve social skills or introduce scientific and mathematical concepts. Most preschool settings employ a less structured approach, including small-group lessons, one-on-one instruction and learning through creative activities, such as music, art and dance. Lots of discussion and collaborative problem solving characterize the preschool classroom. Educational Requirements for Preschool Teachers Education requirements to become a preschool teacher vary. Public schools require at least a bachelor's degree; while an associate's degree or high school diploma is acceptable for some childcare centers. Coursework Coursework in a preschool teacher degree program may include: Child development Classroom management and behavior Curriculum methods Instructional design Instructional resources and technology Parent-child relations Other Requirements In many cases, preschool teachers start out as assistant teachers. With this experience, they may advance to being teachers and eventually to lead teacher status. A preschool teacher needs to be proficient in helping children learn how to cooperate, providing fun learning activities suitable for preschoolers, keeping children safe, working as a team member with other teachers and interacting with parents. Preschool teachers need to be eager participants in children's growth and development, and in helping students understand how to use their natural curiosity to help make the appropriate developmental leaps in their skills and abilities. They are expected to create an atmosphere where risks can be taken and discoveries made while children remain safe. Most preschool teachers are required to earn certification in first aid procedures and infant and child CPR. They also need to undergo police background checks and fingerprinting. Salary Information and Career Outlook According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), preschool teachers earned an average yearly wage of $32,500 in May 2015. The lowest-paid 10% of workers made $19,130 or less, while the top 10% of professionals made $51,990 or more. The BLS projected that job openings for preschool teachers would grow 7% from 2014-2024, which was as fast as average. This growth will be driven by an increase in the number of children under five, as well as more demand for preschool education. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Preschool Teacher: How to Become a Preschool Teacher RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Preschool Teacher Video: Educational Requirements for Preschool Teachers School Teacher Careers Preschool Teacher Certification Preschool Teacher Requirements Preschool Teacher Preschool Teacher Training Becoming a Preschool Teacher Online Schools for Becoming a Preschool Teacher: How to Choose Although most education classes are held online, programs typically offer students a chance to engage in a hands-on practicum... How to Become a Preschool Teacher Online States have several different requirements for preschool teachers - from high school to specific college majors and... Online Preschool Teacher Degree Program Options Get information about online training programs to become a preschool teacher. Read about program requirements, course... Preschool Teacher: Job Duties & Requirements Preschool teachers play a vital role in the development of children. Find out the basic education and skills required. Get... How to Become a Certified Preschool Teacher Preschool Teacher Qualifications Teacher Education Should I Be a Preschool Teacher? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Preschool Teacher Educational Requirements America Celebrates National Teacher Appreciation Week Veterinary Assistant: Online Diploma Online Fashion Design Degree Program Overviews Creative Director: Job Description, Duties and Salary Information Master of Public Administration (MPA): Online Degree Three in Four Parents Satisfied with Teacher Performance 5 Great Ideas for Teacher Appreciation Week Music Producer: Job Summary & Education Requirements Head Chef: Job Description, Duties and Requirements PhD in Telecommunications Degree Program Overview Bethpage New York Town and Education Facts Sacramento, California City and Higher Ed. Info Villanova, Pennsylvania (PA) Colleges Seven Hills, Ohio Education and City Information Radiology School in Louisiana Schiller Park Illinois Higher Education and Village Information Script Supervisor Education Requirements and Career Information Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Behavioral Health Master M.Ed. in Early Childhood M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.Ed. in Elementary Education M.Ed. in Secondary Education MA in Curriculum and Instruction Bachelor BS in Early Childhood Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ed.D. in Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D. in Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D in General Education Master Master of Education - Early Childhood Education Master of Education - Curriculum & Teaching Master of Education - General Education MEd in PK-12 Principal Leadership Non-Degree Education Specialist in Early Childhood Education Education Specialist in Curriculum and Teaching Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 3Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Psychology - Child & Adolescent Dev. Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Master Master of Arts in Education Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Educational Effectiveness (K - 12) Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - Higher Education Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - K - 12 MS in Educational Effectiveness (Higher Education) Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 6Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Education - Early Childhood Education Ph.D. in Education - Early Childhood and Primary Education Doctor of Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - Self-Designed Ph.D. in Education - Curriculum, Instruction and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - General Master MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching Adults in the Early Childhood Field MS in Early Childhood Studies - Administration, Management and Leadership MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching and Diversity in Early Childhood Education MS in Early Childhood Studies - Early Childhood Public Policy and Advocacy Non-Degree Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Early Childhood Education Ed.S. in Educational Leadership & Administration (Principal Preparation) - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA/Education - Exceptional Systems for Revolutionizing Education Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 8Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Teaching & Learning Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 9Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Secondary Education MS in Special Education MS in Special Education with Wilson Reading System® Certification Non-Degree Online Accelerated Teacher Certificate Special Education Certification Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 10Indiana Wesleyan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Associate Associate of Science in Early Childhood Education Get Started with Indiana Wesleyan University What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Counseling and Guidance Curriculum and Instruction Educational Administration and Supervision Educational Evaluation and Research ESL Teaching International and Comparative Education Library Science and Related Professions Philosophical Foundations of Education Special Education Teacher Education for Specific Levels and Methods Teacher Education for Specific Subject Areas Teaching Assistant Select your specialty subject area Teacher Education, Multiple Levels Teaching, Adults Teaching, Elementary Teaching, High School Teaching, Junior High Teaching, Kindergarten and Preschool Teaching, Waldorf and Steiner Education Teaching, Young Children What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Grand Canyon University Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Behavioral Health M.Ed. in Early Childhood M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.Ed. in Elementary Education M.Ed. in Secondary Education MA in Curriculum and Instruction BS in Early Childhood Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2 Northcentral University Ed.D. in Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D. in Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D in General Education Master of Education - Early Childhood Education Master of Education - Curriculum & Teaching Master of Education - General Education MEd in PK-12 Principal Leadership Education Specialist in Early Childhood Education Education Specialist in Curriculum and Teaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 3 Southern New Hampshire University BA in Psychology - Child & Adolescent Dev. What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Master of Arts in Education What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5 Baker College Online MS in Educational Effectiveness (K - 12) Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - Higher Education Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - K - 12 MS in Educational Effectiveness (Higher Education) View more When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Walden University Doctor of Education - Early Childhood Education Ph.D. in Education - Early Childhood and Primary Education Doctor of Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - Self-Designed Ph.D. in Education - Curriculum, Instruction and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - General MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching Adults in the Early Childhood Field MS in Early Childhood Studies - Administration, Management and Leadership MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching and Diversity in Early Childhood Education MS in Early Childhood Studies - Early Childhood Public Policy and Advocacy Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Early Childhood Education Ed.S. in Educational Leadership & Administration (Principal Preparation) - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7 Ashford University MA/Education - Exceptional Systems for Revolutionizing Education What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 8 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 9 Saint Joseph's University MS in Secondary Education MS in Special Education MS in Special Education with Wilson Reading System® Certification Online Accelerated Teacher Certificate Special Education Certification View more During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 10 Indiana Wesleyan University Associate of Science in Early Childhood Education What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
