#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/common-algebraic-equations-linear-quadratic-polynomial-and-more.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/academy/course/holt-mcdougal-algebra-i-online-textbook-help.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/high-school-algebra-i-percent-notation.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/high-school-algebra-i-rational-expressions.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/academy/course/praxis-ii-mathematics-practice-and-study-guide.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/common-algebraic-equations-linear-quadratic-polynomial-and-more.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/how-to-graph-reflections-across-axes-the-origin-and-line-y-x.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/common-algebraic-equations-linear-quadratic-polynomial-and-more.html#transcriptHeader
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/common-algebraic-equations-linear-quadratic-polynomial-and-more.html&width=100&
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Common Algebraic Equations: Linear, Quadratic, Polynomial, and More - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: Common Algebraic Equations: Linear, Quadratic, Polynomial, and More Watch this video lesson to see the kinds of equations that you will come across most often in algebra. Learn to distinguish them by just looking for the identifying components of each equation.  Algebra I: High School  /  Math Courses Course Navigator Defining, Translating, & Solving One-Step EquationsNext Lesson  Common Algebraic Equations: Linear, Quadratic, Polynomial, and More Chapter 8 /  Lesson 9   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Identifying Common Algebraic Equations Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: Defining, Translating, & Solving One-Step Equations 0:22 Linear 1:28 Quadratic 2:22 Cubic 3:16 Polynomial 4:28 Rational 4:52 Radical Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 12,974 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses What is a Quadratic Equation? - Definition & Examples Graphs: Types, Examples & Functions What is a Preposition? - Definition, Uses & Examples Polar and Nonpolar Covalent Bonds: Definitions and Examples Remainder Theorem & Factor Theorem: Definition & Examples What is a Linear Equation? What is Slope? - Definition & Formulas Poetic Devices: Definition, Types & Examples What is a Scale Factor? - Definition, Formula & Examples Cell Membrane: Functions, Role & Structure Newton's First Law of Motion: Examples of the Effect of Force on Motion Phase Change: Evaporation, Condensation, Freezing, Melting, Sublimation & Deposition How to Graph Reflections Across Axes, the Origin, and Line Y=X What is a Cubic Equation? - Definition & Examples Parabolas in Standard, Intercept, and Vertex Form Writing Ionic Compound Formulas: Binary & Polyatomic Compounds What Is an Exponential Function? Transformation of Exponential Functions: Examples & Summary Central Processing Unit (CPU): Parts, Definition & Function What Are Ionic Compounds? - Definition, Examples & Reactions 6th-8th Grade Math: Practice & Review ACT Prep: Help and Review High School Geometry: Help and Review High School Geometry: Tutoring Solution High School Geometry: Homework Help Resource High School Trigonometry: Help and Review High School Trigonometry: Tutoring Solution Praxis Mathematics: Practice and Study Guide High School Trigonometry: Homework Help Resource ACT Math Prep: Review & Practice SAT Subject Test Mathematics Level 1: Practice and Study Guide ACT Compass Math Test: Practice & Study Guide Holt McDougal Algebra I: Online Textbook Help Accuplacer Elementary Algebra Test: Practice & Study Guide Holt Geometry: Online Textbook Help Remedial Algebra I Algebra I Textbook Algebra 2 and Trig Textbook Remedial Algebra II College Mathematics Syllabus Resource & Lesson Plans Lesson Transcript Instructor: Yuanxin (Amy) Yang Alcocer Amy has a master's degree in secondary education and has taught Math at a public charter high school. Watch this video lesson to see the kinds of equations that you will come across most often in algebra. Learn to distinguish them by just looking for the identifying components of each equation. Common Algebraic Equations In algebra, there are some equation types that you will come across more often than others. You will find that if you can identify the type of equation that you are working with, then it becomes easier to work with the problem since you will know the properties of the equation. In this lesson we will cover six common algebraic equations. Linear The first one is called the linear equation. The general form of these equations is y = mx + b, where m and b are numbers and m cannot be zero. The way to identify these types of equations is to look for an x with no exponents. The x should be the only variable you see other than the y. You should not have any other exponents or square roots. The x is also always in the numerator, never in the denominator. These equations are called 'linear' because when you graph them, you end up with a single line. So, to help you remember that you should only see one x, think of linear as having one line, and link the one line to the one x in your head. For example, y = 4x + 3 is a linear equation. Note that you see the x and no other x's. We can start building a table to keep all of these equations and their names organized. Quadratic Equation The second common type of equation is the quadratic equation. This type of equation has a general form of ax^2 + bx + c = 0, where a, b and c are numbers and a is never zero. The other two letters, b and c, can be zero. The key thing to look for here is the x^2. The exponent of 2 is the highest and you should not see any higher exponents in the equation. If the b is not a zero, then you will also see an x with no exponent. You should not see more x's than these two. An example of a quadratic equation is 4x^2 + 3x + 1 = 0. Do you see how the highest exponent is two? We can add this to our table. Cubic The next type is the cubic equation, which has the general form of ax^3 + bx^2 + cx + d = 0, where a, b, c and d are numbers but a cannot be zero. The way to identify these types of equations is to look for the x^3. The 3 should be your highest exponent. If b and c are not zero, then you will also have an x^2 and an x term, but your terms will never have an exponent higher than 3. For example, x^3 = 0 is an example of a cubic equation. Notice that 3 is the highest exponent here and our b, c and d are zero, but our a is a 1. Adding this information to our table, we get this. Polynomial While your linear, quadratic and cubic equations limited your highest exponent to 1, 2 and 3 respectively, the polynomial equation takes away that limit. A polynomial is of the form: where all the a's are numbers. The word 'polynomial' means 'consisting of several terms,' and as you can see, this opens up a whole world of equations that includes linear, quadratic and cubic equations. The only restrictions are that the exponents have to be positive, whole numbers. They cannot be negative, nor can they be fractions. An example of a polynomial is the equation 5x^6 + 3x^2 + 11 = 0. Let's add this to our table. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Rational Now, if you take a polynomial and divide it by another polynomial, you will have your rational equation. You can say that a rational equation is the fraction of two polynomials. An example of a rational equation is the equation (4x^2 + 3) / (x + 5) = 0. We can now add this to our table. Radical Our last common algebraic equation is the radical equation, which is an equation that involves the radical symbol. So an equation with a square root is a radical equation. So is an equation with the third root. If the equation has the radical symbol - the one used for square roots - then the equation is a radical equation. An equation such as 4x + sqrt3 = 0 is an example of a radical equation because it has the radical symbol in the equation. Now we can finish our table by adding this last bit of information. Lesson Summary Now we can review what we've learned. We've learned that in algebra, there are several common equation types that we will see over and over again. Being able to recognize these makes it easier to problem solve because we will know the type of equation we are working with. We can summarize the types of equations we covered in this table that will be worth copying or memorizing. Equation General Form Example Linear y = mx + b y = 4x + 3 Quadratic ax^2 + bx + c = 0 4x^2 + 3x + 1 = 0 Cubic ax^3 + bx^2 + cx + d = 0 x^3 = 0 Polynomial 5x^6 + 3x^2 + 11 = 0 Rational Polynomial / Polynomial (4x^2 + 3) / (x + 5) = 0 Radical Equation with radical symbol 4x + √3 = 0 To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the Algebra I: High School page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Algebra 1: Summary of Coursework Algebra 2: Coursework Overview List of Free Online Algebra Courses and Lessons GED Algebra Exam: Training and Preparation Information How Do I Use Study.com's Assign Lesson Feature? Job Resumes 2.0: Creating a Video Resume YouCollege: Video Becomes the Next Big Thing in College Applications Students: Use Video Games to Stay in Shape Associate of Film and Video: Degree Overview Job Description of a Video Blogger: Duties and Requirements Behavior Analyst: Job Description and Education Requirements Online Bachelors Degree in Aviation: Program Overview Online Phlebotomy Certification, Certificate and Training Overviews How to Become a Registered Cardiovascular Technician How to Become a Legal Interpreter Step-by-Step Career Guide Corrections Schools in Kentucky Online Home Health Aide Certification Information Baton Rouge, Louisiana (LA) Colleges × Course Navigator  Back To Course Algebra I: High School 25 chapters | 249 lessons 1 - High School Algebra: Basic Arithmetic Go to High School Algebra: Basic Arithmetic 2 - High School Algebra: Solving Math Word Problems Go to High School Algebra: Solving Math Word Problems 3 - High School Algebra: Decimals and Fractions Go to High School Algebra: Decimals and Fractions 4 - High School Algebra: Percent Notation Go to High School Algebra: Percent Notation 5 - High School Algebra: Real Numbers Go to High School Algebra: Real Numbers 6 - High School Algebra: Exponents and Exponential... Go to High School Algebra: Exponents and Exponential Expressions 7 - High School Algebra: Radical Expressions Go to High School Algebra: Radical Expressions 8 - High School Algebra: Algebraic Expressions and Equations What is the Correct Setup to Solve Math Problems?: Writing Arithmetic Expressions 5:50 Understanding and Evaluating Math Formulas 7:08 Expressing Relationships as Algebraic Expressions 5:12 Evaluating Simple Algebraic Expressions 7:27 Combining Like Terms in Algebraic Expressions 7:04 Practice Simplifying Algebraic Expressions 8:27 Negative Signs and Simplifying Algebraic Expressions 9:38 Writing Equations with Inequalities: Open Sentences and True/False Statements 4:22 Common Algebraic Equations: Linear, Quadratic, Polynomial, and More 7:28 6:15 Next Lesson Defining, Translating, & Solving One-Step Equations Solving Equations Using the Addition Principle 5:20 Solving Equations Using the Multiplication Principle 4:03 Solving Equations Using Both Addition and Multiplication Principles 6:21 Collecting Like Terms On One Side of an Equation 6:28 Solving Equations Containing Parentheses 6:50 Solving Equations with Infinite Solutions or No Solutions 4:45 Translating Words to Algebraic Expressions 6:31 How to Solve One-Step Algebra Equations in Word Problems 5:05 How to Solve Equations with Multiple Steps 5:44 How to Solve Multi-Step Algebra Equations in Word Problems 6:16 Go to High School Algebra: Algebraic Expressions and Equations 9 - High School Algebra: Properties of Functions Go to High School Algebra: Properties of Functions 10 - High School Algebra: Matrices and Absolute Value Go to High School Algebra: Matrices and Absolute Value 11 - High School Algebra: Working With Inequalities Go to High School Algebra: Working With Inequalities 12 - High School Algebra: Properties of Exponents Go to High School Algebra: Properties of Exponents 13 - High School Algebra: Complex and Imaginary Numbers Go to High School Algebra: Complex and Imaginary Numbers 14 - High School Algebra: Algebraic Distribution Go to High School Algebra: Algebraic Distribution 15 - High School Algebra: Linear Equations Go to High School Algebra: Linear Equations 16 - High School Algebra: Factoring Go to High School Algebra: Factoring 17 - High School Algebra: Graphing and Factoring... Go to High School Algebra: Graphing and Factoring Quadratic Equations 18 - High School Algebra: Properties of Polynomial Functions Go to High School Algebra: Properties of Polynomial Functions 19 - High School Algebra: Rational Expressions Go to High School Algebra: Rational Expressions 20 - High School Algebra: Cubic Equations Go to High School Algebra: Cubic Equations 21 - High School Algebra: Quadratic Equations Go to High School Algebra: Quadratic Equations 22 - High School Algebra: Measurement and Geometry Go to High School Algebra: Measurement and Geometry 23 - High School Algebra: Calculations, Ratios, Percent &... Go to High School Algebra: Calculations, Ratios, Percent & Proportions 24 - High School Algebra: Data, Statistics, and Probability Go to High School Algebra: Data, Statistics, and Probability 25 - High School Algebra: Well-Known Equations Go to High School Algebra: Well-Known Equations Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
