#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Alaska_AK_Universities_and_Colleges_and_Educational_System.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=USW
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://study.com/articles/Alaska_AK_Universities_and_Colleges_and_Educational_System.html
http://study.com/articles/Online_Bachelors_Degree_in_Microbiology_Program_Overviews.html
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/program/Colorado_Technical_University_BS_in_Psychology_-_Organizational_Behavior.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Alaska (AK): Universities and Colleges and Educational System
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies College and University Overviews (by State)  /  A - D  /  Alaska (AK): Universities and... Alaska (AK): Universities and Colleges and Educational System Alaska is home to about ten public and private not-for-profit colleges and universities. See rankings of the best and most affordable schools in Alaska to determine which schools might be right for you. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools School Ranking Overview Given its location and population size, it's not surprising that Alaska has very few postsecondary options for would-be college students. We train our sights on seven private non-profit and public colleges or universities in Alaska, comparing and contrasting them to help readers see if any are a good academic fit. The top three schools of the bunch are then ranked in the categories listed here: Most Program Variety Lowest Net Price Highest Graduation Rate Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio Most Program Variety Alaska colleges and universities offer prospective students a variety of traditional programs in the arts, sciences and humanities as well as some unique options in fields like arctic engineering and native studies. The Alaska schools featured below offer students the most program variety at both the undergraduate and graduate levels. All three are part of the University of Alaska educational system. 1 - University of Alaska Anchorage The University of Alaska Anchorage enrolls more than 18,000 undergraduate and graduate students each year and offers over 160 programs, more than any other school in the state. In 2011, the most popular bachelor's degree programs among graduates were in the business, psychology, health professions, social science and engineering fields, according to U.S. News & World Report, which also ranked this school 58th among regional university in the West for 2013. Students enrolled at the University of Alaska Anchorage can also earn associate's degrees, master's degrees, doctoral degrees and certificates in fields as diverse as aviation technology, supply chain operations, arctic engineering and public administration. 2 - University of Alaska Fairbanks This public university offers more than 140 programs to an annual enrollment of nearly 10,000 students. Popular undergraduate programs in 2011 included majors in engineering, social sciences, business, psychology and biological sciences, according to U.S. News & World Report. The National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) reported that the university's education, business and engineering schools were among the popular options for students pursuing master's degrees. Graduate programs in natural resources and the physical sciences also conferred several awards, especially to doctoral candidates. 3 - University of Alaska Southeast The University of Alaska Southeast is located in Juneau and offers an estimated 60 programs of study in fields including the arts and sciences, engineering technology, business, allied health and auto repair technology. The school's native studies program is one of its more unique options. Students pursuing a liberal arts bachelor's degree can learn about Alaska's languages, culture and society. There are also minors in Northwest Coast art and the Tlingit language. According to the NCES, this school awarded around 500 certificates and associate's, bachelor's and master's degrees in 2011-2012. Lowest Net Price The average net price for a college or university is determined by subtracting the average amount of government or institutional financial aid first-year full-time students receive from the total cost of attendance, which includes tuition, fees, room and board, among other expenses. The net price for Alaska's traditional public and private not-for-profit schools ranged from around $8,000-$30,000 a year, according to NCES figures for 2010-2011. The three schools listed below are the most affordable options in the state. 1 - Prince William Sound Community College Located in Valdez, Prince William Sound Community College is a 2-year school offering career training and transfer programs at a net price of $7,617. According to the NCES, students paid $4,570 in tuition and fees and $5,240 for on-campus room and board during the 2012-2013 school year. Off-campus housing cost $8,000 for this same year. During the 2010-2011 academic year, 88% of first-year full-time students received financial aid to help cover these expenses, the NCES reported. Fifty percent of these students received grant or scholarship aid for an average amount of $3,932. 2 - University of Alaska Southeast The second most affordable option among traditional public and private not-for-profit schools in the state is this public university, which had a net price of $8,850 for 2010-2011. During this year, the NCES reported that 74% of first-year full-time students received some sort of financial aid, 47% of which were awarded grants or scholarships averaging $4,609. In 2012-2013, in-state students paid $5,740 in tuition and fees, while out-of-state students paid $18,190, according to the NCES. On-campus room and board could add an additional $9,550 to the cost of attendance; off-campus housing cost $12,104. 3 - University of Alaska Anchorage With a net price of $9,755, this Alaska school was another one of the less expensive options in the state. Alaska residents paid $5,276 in tuition and fees during the 2012-2013 school year. Non-Alaska residents paid $18,176, per the NCES. Room and board at this school was $9,580 for students living on campus and $11,148 for those opting to live off campus. During the 2010-2011 school year, 69% of full-time first-year students received financial assistance, the NCES found. Forty-four percent were awarded grant or scholarship aid for an average of $4,624. Highest Graduation Rate A school's overall graduation rate is the percentage of first-year full-time students who completed their studies in 150% of 'normal time' (for example, six years for a bachelor's degree). The NCES revealed that overall graduation rates for many of Alaska's public and private not-for-profit schools were around 20%-30%, with one school reporting an 8% overall graduation rate. The following schools saw a significantly higher percentage of students complete their programs within 150% of 'normal time', around 50%. 1 - AVTEC - Alaska's Institute of Technology Located in Seward, this public school has an overall graduation rate of 76% among students who enrolled in 2008, the highest in the state. The retention rate is also high; according to the NCES, 90% of full-time and 100% of part-time first-year students beginning their programs in 2010 returned in 2011. Available programs at this technical school include certificates in such areas as information science, practical nursing, welding and the culinary arts. 2 - Ilisagvik College This tribal college is located on the shores of the Arctic Ocean in Barrow. The NCES reported an overall graduation rate of 50% among students who began one of the school's career training degree or certificate programs in 2008. As for retention rates, 58% of full-time first-year students who enrolled in 2010 returned in 2011, as reported by the NCES. Only a quarter of part-time first-year students beginning in 2010 returned the following year. 3 - Alaska Pacific University Located in Anchorage, this small private university has a slightly lower overall graduation rate of 46% among students who began their studies in 2005. Only 23% of students who enrolled in bachelor's degree programs during this year finished in four years of full-time study, though the 6-year graduation rate for this cohort jumped to 46%. The retention rate among bachelor's degree candidates beginning their programs in 2010 was fairly high, with NCES reporting that 76% of full-time and 50% of part-time first-year students returned in 2011. Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio Students taking student-faculty ratios into consideration when choosing a school might find that many of Alaska's public and private not-for-profit colleges and universities have around 15 students per every instructor. However, the schools listed below had the lowest student-faculty ratios in the state as of fall 2011, some as low as 7:1, according to the NCES. 1 - Alaska Pacific University This school had one of the lowest student-faculty ratios in Alaska, with seven students for every teacher. Alaska Pacific University employed 50 full-time and 56 part-time faculty members in the fall of 2011. There were also nine instructional graduate assistants, per the NCES. With an annual enrollment of less than 700 students, this is one of the smaller schools in Alaska. 1 - Ilisagvik College Ilisagvik College also has a student-faculty ratio of 7:1. In the fall of 2011, it was home to 14 full-time and 39 part-time faculty members, NCES reported. Twenty-three of these individuals were employed as instructors. The school is extremely small with a little more than 200 students enrolled each year. 3 - University of Alaska Fairbanks This large university's student-faculty ratio was slightly higher at 12:1. NCES data showed that its instructional staff consisted of 434 full-time and 327 part-time faculty members in fall 2011. More than 200 graduate assistants also provided instruction to students. All told, 64.8% of classes at this university had less than 20 students in 2011, according to U.S. News & World Report. Alaska Schools at a Glance School Name Location School Type Program Levels Offered State Ranking Alaska Pacific University Anchorage 4-year, private; not-for-profit Undergraduate and post-baccalaureate certificates; associate's, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio, 3rd Highest Graduation Rate AVTEC - Alaska's Institute of Technology Seward <2-year; public Undergraduate certificates Highest Graduation Rate Ilisagvik College Barrow 2-year, public Undergraduate certificates; associate's degrees Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio, 2nd Highest Graduation Rate Prince William Sound Community College Valdez 2-year, public Undergraduate certificates; associate's degrees Lowest Net Price University of Alaska Anchorage Anchorage 4-year, public Undergraduate, post-baccalaureate and post-master's certificates; associate's, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees Most Program Variety, 3rd Lowest Net Price University of Alaska Fairbanks Fairbanks 4-year, public Undergraduate and post-baccalaureate certificates; associate's, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees 2nd Most Program Variety, 3rd Lowest Student-Faculty Ratio University of Alaska Southeast Juneau 4-year, public Undergraduate and post-baccalaureate certificates; associate's, bachelor's and master's degrees 2nd Lowest Net Price, 3rd Most Program Variety Show me 10 popular schools Related to Alaska (AK): Universities and Colleges and Educational System RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Real Sample Essays for Your College Application Video University of Georgia Video Review Anchorage, Alaska (AK) Colleges Juneau, Alaska (AK) Colleges Fairbanks, Alaska (AK) Colleges Alaska Corrections Colleges Alaska Culinary Arts Colleges Overview of the Fastest Growing Alaska Careers Looking for employment in Alaska? Even though Alaska had a 6.4% unemployment rate in 2015, according to the U.S. Bureau of... 10 Educational Spring Break Alternatives Tropical vacations can seem tempting when spring break rolls around. They're fun, relaxing and much more. But those can be... How Much Should a College's Reputation Affect Your Decision? Choosing what college to attend is one of life's biggest decisions. The choice a person makes may have far-reaching effects on... Crowdsourcing a Solution for Sharing Educational Resources Study.com talks to Anne Jonas of the Participatory Culture Foundation about applying crowdsourced captioning and video... 15 Top-Notch Colleges Without Bloated Reputations GED in Alaska EMT Training Alaska How Colleges Can Fight Binge-Drinking on Campus Why Are Colleges Failing to Disclose Graduation Rates for Pell Students? Are Colleges Getting Too Sensitive? Difference Between an Associate Degree and Bachelors Degree Benefits of an MBA in Finance: Overview for Aspiring Students Online Bachelor's Degree in Microbiology: Program Overviews Medical Doctor: Job Description & Career Info 10 Colleges You Haven't Considered But Should The 20 Most Influential Colleges (So Far) Online PhD Programs in Engineering: Degree Overviews Bachelor of Web Design and Multimedia: Online Degree Online Travel Agent Degree Program Information CAD Designer Top School for Becoming a CAD Designer - Torrance CA Legal Assisting Degrees Top School for Becoming a Legal Assistant or Paralegal - San Antonio TX Top School for Becoming a Networking and Telecommunications Professional - Washington DC Masters in Forensic Psychology Top Ranked School for International Business and Trade - San Diego CA East Carolina Edu Programming Courses Top School for Becoming a Computer Programmer - Morrisville NC Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations Bachelor BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 2Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - General-Advanced PhD in Criminal Justice - General Doctor of Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - Self-Designed Ph.D. in Education - Curriculum, Instruction and Assesment Master Master of Business Administration - Leadership MS in Psychology - Applied Psychology MS in Management - Communication M.S. in Industrial and Organizational Psychology - General Practice MS in Psychology - General M.S. in Communication Non-Degree Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Assessment, Evaluation, and Accountability Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Education Leadership and Administration (Prinicpal Preperation) Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Educational Administration and Leadership (Non-Licensure) Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Special Education Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Early Childhood Education Ed.S. in Educational Leadership & Administration (Principal Preparation) - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 3Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management Bachelor BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 4University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MBA in Technology Management MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Project Management Bachelor BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies Associate AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Non-Degree Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 6Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance Bachelor BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 7University of the Southwest School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA - Self-Designed MSEd in School Counseling MBA in Accounting MBA - Law Enforcement & Corrections MBA - HR Management MBA - Public Administration Get Started with University of the Southwest What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School 8American InterContinental University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Management MBA in Operations Management M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Business Administration - Accounting Master of Information Technology - Information Assurance and Security MBA in Project Management Bachelor Bachelor of Business Administration - Generalist Bachelor or Science - Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement BBA in Marketing BBA in Accounting Bachelor of Business Administration - Finance Bachelor of Technology: Information Assurance and Security Associate Associate of Arts in Business Administration Associate of Science in Criminal Justice Get Started with American InterContinental University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate No HS Diploma/No GED 9Kaplan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED 🌟 Graduate faster & save money with Study.com transfer credit 🌟 School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path, Executive Leader Specialization Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path Master MS in Criminal Justice - Law Master of Science in Legal Studies MS in Psychology MBA MS in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Science in Psychology, Industrial/Organizational Psychology Bachelor BS in Liberal Studies BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Investment Career Focus Area BS in Liberal Studies Leadership BS in Nutrition Science Associate AAS in Business Administration - Business AAS in Legal Support and Services AAS in Business Administration AAS in Business Admin-Office Management AAS in Criminal Justice AAS in Accounting Non-Degree Certificate in Human Services Pathway to Paralegal Postbaccalaureate Certificate Family Nurse Practitioner Graduate Certificate Executive Leader Graduate Certificate Adult Gerontology Practitioner Certificate Nurse Educator Graduate Certificate Get Started with Kaplan University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school 10Colorado Technical University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Management Criminal Justice Doctor of Computer Science Doctor of Computer Science in Information Assurance Doctor of Management in Graduate Level Instructional Practices Doctor of Computer Science in Enterprise Information Systems Doctor of Management in Organizational Development and Change Master Master of Science in Computer Science MS in Computer Science - Database Systems Master of Business Administration MBA in Entrepreneurship Master of Science in Computer Science - Computer Systems Security MS - Information Technology Bachelor BS in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice BS in Psychology - Organizational Behavior BS in Psychology - Consumer Behavior BS in Nursing (RN to BSN completion) Bachelor of Science in Information Technology - Web Development Associate Associate of Science in Business Administration AS in Health Administration Services Get Started with Colorado Technical University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate No HS Diploma/No GED Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 2 Walden University DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - General-Advanced PhD in Criminal Justice - General Doctor of Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - Self-Designed Ph.D. in Education - Curriculum, Instruction and Assesment Master of Business Administration - Leadership MS in Psychology - Applied Psychology MS in Management - Communication M.S. in Industrial and Organizational Psychology - General Practice MS in Psychology - General M.S. in Communication Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Assessment, Evaluation, and Accountability Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Education Leadership and Administration (Prinicpal Preperation) Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Educational Administration and Leadership (Non-Licensure) Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Special Education Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Early Childhood Education Ed.S. in Educational Leadership & Administration (Principal Preparation) - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 3 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 4 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MBA in Technology Management MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Project Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 6 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 7 University of the Southwest MBA - Self-Designed MSEd in School Counseling MBA in Accounting MBA - Law Enforcement & Corrections MBA - HR Management MBA - Public Administration View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School 8 American InterContinental University MBA in Management MBA in Operations Management M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction Master of Business Administration - Accounting Master of Information Technology - Information Assurance and Security MBA in Project Management Bachelor of Business Administration - Generalist Bachelor or Science - Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement BBA in Marketing BBA in Accounting Bachelor of Business Administration - Finance Bachelor of Technology: Information Assurance and Security Associate of Arts in Business Administration Associate of Science in Criminal Justice View more Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No 9 Kaplan University Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path, Executive Leader Specialization Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing - Doctor of Nursing Practice Path MS in Criminal Justice - Law Master of Science in Legal Studies MS in Psychology MBA MS in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Science in Psychology, Industrial/Organizational Psychology BS in Liberal Studies BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Investment Career Focus Area BS in Liberal Studies Leadership BS in Nutrition Science AAS in Business Administration - Business AAS in Legal Support and Services AAS in Business Administration AAS in Business Admin-Office Management AAS in Criminal Justice AAS in Accounting Certificate in Human Services Pathway to Paralegal Postbaccalaureate Certificate Family Nurse Practitioner Graduate Certificate Executive Leader Graduate Certificate Adult Gerontology Practitioner Certificate Nurse Educator Graduate Certificate View more Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 10 Colorado Technical University Doctor of Management Criminal Justice Doctor of Computer Science Doctor of Computer Science in Information Assurance Doctor of Management in Graduate Level Instructional Practices Doctor of Computer Science in Enterprise Information Systems Doctor of Management in Organizational Development and Change Master of Science in Computer Science MS in Computer Science - Database Systems Master of Business Administration MBA in Entrepreneurship Master of Science in Computer Science - Computer Systems Security MS - Information Technology BS in Psychology Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice BS in Psychology - Organizational Behavior BS in Psychology - Consumer Behavior BS in Nursing (RN to BSN completion) Bachelor of Science in Information Technology - Web Development Associate of Science in Business Administration AS in Health Administration Services View more Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No Show more schools… Alaska Colleges Alaska Cities Anchorage, AK Schools Fairbanks, AK Schools Juneau, AK Schools Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
