#ThisURL#
http://www.mckinsey.com/careers/faqs/mba
#SubURL#
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/pharmaceuticals-and-medical-products/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/india
http://www.mckinsey.com/careers/faqs/mba#skip1
http://www.mckinsey.com/quarterly/overview
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/aerospace-and-defense/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/terms-of-use
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/semiconductors/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/careers/your-growth-at-mckinsey
http://www.mckinsey.com/careers/faqs/mba#
http://www.mckinsey.com/careers/faqs/mba
https://mckinsey.secure.force.com/Generalist/Login
https://mckinsey.secure.force.com/Generalist/Login
#Title#
MBA | Careers | McKinsey & Company
#Content#
Skip main navigation Industries Industries Advanced Electronics Aerospace & Defense Automotive & Assembly Chemicals Consumer Packaged Goods Electric Power & Natural Gas Financial Services Healthcare Systems & Services High Tech Infrastructure Media & Entertainment Metals & Mining Oil & Gas Paper & Forest Products Pharmaceuticals & Medical Products Private Equity & Principal Investors Public Sector Retail Semiconductors Social Sector Telecommunications Travel, Transport & Logistics Read our featured insights Business Functions Business Functions Analytics Business Technology Digital Implementation Learning Programs for Clients Marketing & Sales Operations Organization Recovery & Transformation Services Risk Strategy & Corporate Finance Sustainability & Resource Productivity Read our featured insights Global Themes Global Themes Timely Topics Digital Disruption Employment & Growth Leading in the 21st Century Long-term Capitalism Urbanization Winning in Emerging Markets Women Matter Regions Americas Asia-Pacific China Europe India Middle East & Africa Read our featured insights About Us About Us Featured McKinsey Global Institute McKinsey Quarterly McKinsey Solutions Overview Who we are What we do Media center Alumni New at McKinsey blog Careers Careers Our work Our people and values Your growth at McKinsey Your career Join us FAQs Locations Register Log in Close it Log in Apply to McKinsey Start a new application to McKinsey, retrieve your draft application(s) or access or update your online account. Online application To ensure the security of your profile information, please re-enter your password. Please log in to print or download this article. E-mail Forgot your password?Password Don’t have an account? Register here. Please create an account to print or download this article. Register to get full access to our articles and reports, including those by McKinsey Quarterly and the McKinsey Global Institute, and to subscribe to our newsletters and e-mail alerts. Register Access Insights & Publications Gain full access to articles and reports, including those by McKinsey Quarterly and the McKinsey Global Institute, and subscribe to our newsletters and e-mail alerts. Insights & Publications Close it Forgot your password? Sorry, something went wrong and we cannot reset your password right now. Please try again later. Please enter the e-mail address you use to sign into your account. E-mail Thank you. If your e-mail address is associated with an account in our system, we have sent you instructions on how to reset your password. Careers Our work  Reach and impact Inspiring work Entrepreneurship Our history Our people and values  Meet our people Diversity and inclusion networks McKinsey Women blog Alumni—a community for life Your growth at McKinsey  Training and learning Coaching and mentorship Collaborative teams Work-life flexibility Your career  Our roles Our locations Your background McKinsey on campus Careers blog Join us  Search and apply What we look for Resume tips Interview process Interview prep Access my draft FAQs  General Undergraduate MBA Law degree Master's degrees Medical degree PhD Experienced professionals MBA frequently asked questions Expand all The application asks that I list my “latest education,” which program or degree should I include? If you are currently enrolled in an MBA program please list that as your “latest education” on the application. If you are not currently enrolled in an academic program, please list the degree or school that you most recently completed. What if I am interested in both local and international offices? This is perfectly acceptable. We strongly encourage you to express your interests in both local and international locations in true order of interest. This again will ensure that you are considered by both local and international offices for interviews. Why do you ask for geographic preferences in the application? We create our closed list based on the merits of your credentials, not on your geographic preferences. All offices seek the same intrinsic capabilities in our candidates. We ask for geographic preferences to ensure offices are aware of your interest in their location. How can I learn more about all the McKinsey office locations and practices? See our Web site for information about our offices and practices. Or contact Mindy MacGriff, who will direct you to the main recruiting contact for the location you are interested in. Will I be invited for both local and international office interviews? No, you will be invited to interview with one office. However, in the event that your top office preferences do not have capacity to interview you, but an office that was not listed among your preferences does, you will be notified of this option. The decision to interview with that office is yours. Are there any offices where it is easier to obtain an interview or offer? No. The standards for success in obtaining a McKinsey interview and offer are the same across the world. All offices look for the same skills and distinctiveness in a resume and a candidate. Does McKinsey consider students from part-time, weekend, and executive MBA programs? Absolutely. All of these programs are rich sources of talent for McKinsey. Any student selected for an interview will be invited to open discussions with us. What if I am open to any McKinsey location? We encourage you to get to know the various McKinsey offices and practices during the recruiting season so that you have a better sense of where you would like to be when completing your application. On the application you will have the opportunity to preference up to four office and/or practice locations. If you are truly location agnostic, you are able to indicate that when submitting your application. If I am interested in applying to a specific McKinsey practice, is there a separate application process? No, there is only one application regardless of generalist or practice preferences. You will have the option of listing up to four office and/or practice preferences when you submit the application. What is the difference between joining McKinsey as a generalist versus joining a specific practice (for example, Business Technology, Operations)? All of our offices and practices seek the same intrinsic capabilities in our candidates. If you already know that you have a strong interest in a functional practice then we would encourage you to apply to that practice specifically. The majority of your work will be in that practice, but there is opportunity for you to explore other functional practices throughout your tenure with the firm. Investment banking and private equity versus consulting Expand all How do I think about McKinsey compared to my other options, for example, investment banking and private equity? There are three things we advise you to consider and ask yourself: What do you want to learn? What are your professional development goals and values? And, finally, what choices do you want to have available to you? Your learning during the first couple of years in an investment bank will be very deep–and very narrow. You will demonstrate complete mastery of a few core skills in financial modeling, likely with more specificity and rigor than any other environment. The trade-off is that this is all you will learn. At McKinsey, your learning will be less deep in financial modeling but you will acquire a much broader set of skills—from performing quantitative analytics to leading organizational change, to implementing operational improvement, to name a few. Second, think about what you value in terms of professional development and lifestyle. Professional development and the staffing process at McKinsey is about developing your skills and expertise as well as helping you grow into a leader–not just filling a need on the client side. When you join McKinsey, you will have a development group leader who is committed to your growth by helping you define a thorough and clear set of professional development objectives. You will have mentors to guide you through your professional decisions. You will have a team learnings to determine your lifestyle at work. Anonymous surveys track your team's well-being and help make sure that the team is adhering to lifestyle commitments. Third, consider your long-term options and choices. One of our principals, a former partner in a private-equity firm, says, “Over the long term, it all depends on what you really want to do. If you want to make investment decisions, you can do that best in a private-equity firm or hedge fund. Generally, however, you should not have any illusions about what junior professionals do at private-equity firms. As an analyst or associate, it's a tough role, you generally crank lots of models, and don't make the major investment decisions until you are more senior.” Many McKinsey partners focus their practice on private equity work. Those who choose to leave us find that being at McKinsey is a great path to becoming a successful investor in private equity. If that is what you want during the course of your career, you will find that McKinsey is a good place to develop the required skills. Equally, if what you want is real skills in operations and strategy, or real expertise in a set of industries, you will get that faster at McKinsey than anywhere else. Marketing versus consulting Expand all How does a marketing background translate into a career as a McKinsey consultant? Since we help senior management in a variety of ways, including shaping marketing and brand strategies, the type of experiences you possess are highly desirable. On your McKinsey team, you might work with senior marketing officers to determine basic market structure, what brands should be kept, how to price and distribute them, and even how to shape the brand 5 to 10 years down the road. We look for candidates with strong analytic skills, coupled with knowledge in product development, cost, and channel strategies. Careers at McKinsey Search and apply Retrieve my draft application Contact us FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use Local language information © 1996-2016 McKinsey & Company McKinsey Insights App Our latest thinking at your fingertips. Anytime. Anywhere. Download the app or Continue to site
