#ThisURL#
http://www.deliveryagent.com/
#SubURL#
https://twitter.com/deliveryagent
http://www.deliveryagent.com/our-clients
http://www.deliveryagent.com/our-products
http://www.deliveryagent.com/our-reach
http://www.deliveryagent.com/news
http://www.deliveryagent.com/news
http://www.deliveryagent.com/our-careers
http://www.deliveryagent.com/company
https://www.linkedin.com/company/22606
http://www.deliveryagent.com/our-clients#our-clients
http://www.deliveryagent.com/press-releases/delivery-agent-to-present-at-the-macquarie-enterprise-entertainment-virtual-reality-conference-and-expo-in-new-york
http://www.deliveryagent.com/
https://www.facebook.com/deliveryagentinc
#Title#
Delivery Agent | Turning Audiences into Customers
#Content#
Kings of commerce Since 2005, our proprietary omni-screen technology has connected audiences with contextually relevant products. And with exclusive rights to over 1,000 of the top media franchises, our reign of revenue is only growing. See Our Clients Turning Audiences into Customers Driving revenue through commerce, advertising and advanced analytics for the world’s leading media companies and brands. Trusted By Industry Leaders Driven By Data Combining omni-screen viewership, engagement and purchase data in one consolidated view enables our clients to run their businesses smarter. Proud partners of:  Connections This Strong Should be Monetized Through a partnership with Twitter, Delivery Agent is monetizing millions of social connections, making it easy for audiences to discover and purchase products directly from a Tweet. Learn More Tech So Smart, It Makes Reruns Exciting. We make TV shoppable. Just ask Samsung — they’re equipping every one of their new Smart TV’s with our proprietary ShopTV platform. Proud partners of: What We Do Whether it’s through our products, reach, partners or people, transforming the way audiences interact with media and entertainment is at the heart of everything we do.      Our Products Every screen is a cash register. Let us show you how we unlock revenue streams for our clients. See Our Products Our Reach Every show, song, and ad is a marketplace. Let us show you how we’re connecting audiences with more of what they love. See Our Reach Company We continue to lead the market in TV engagement and commerce year after year. Meet some of the people who help make that possible. Meet Us Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. Commerce Loves Comedy How do you turn something as small as salt and pepper shakers into true money-makers for your network? Easy, pair them up with flagship comedies like "New Girl", "The Simpsons" and "Bob's Burgers." That's exactly what Delivery Agent, Fox and American Express did by launching the new "Fox Now" mobile app that synchronizes tablet with the TV specific episodes and enables viewers to buy certain items that appear on screen. Garnering over $5,000,000 in sales in it's first month of launch, this effort is proof that giving audiences an opportunity to get more of what they love is always a good idea. In the News Video [itvt]: Delivery Agent’s Mike Fitzsimmons on Tcommerce Read Full Article > See All News Press Releases Delivery Agent to Present at the Macquarie Enterprise & Entertainment Virtual Reality Conference and Expo in New York Read Full Press Release > See All Press Releases Follow Us: Twitter Feed Tweets by @deliveryagent TURNING AUDIENCES INTO CUSTOMERS©2015 Delivery Agent, Inc.  |  Contact Us  |  Privacy Policy Our Products Our Reach Our Clients Shoppable Media Summit News Company Careers Contact Us
