#ThisURL#
http://todaysmilitary.com/
#SubURL#
http://todaysmilitary.com/joining/army
http://todaysmilitary.com/joining/army-national-guard
http://todaysmilitary.com/joining/air-force-reserve
http://todaysmilitary.com/calling-answer
http://todaysmilitary.com/node/2/
http://todaysmilitary.com/#utility
http://todaysmilitary.com/joining/types-of-military-service
http://todaysmilitary.com/living/world-travel
http://todaysmilitary.com/node/6/
http://todaysmilitary.com/privacy-policy
#Title#
Today's Military
#Content#
Language: English Eng Español Esp Joining Research & Planning Training Basic & Advanced Working Careers & Pay Living Benefits & Family Inside Look Videos & Stories Guidance Parents & Educators Back Joining Overview Learning about military service begins here, with the first of our comprehensive overview pages. Go to our Joining Overview page First Considerations Entrance Requirements Types of Military Service Enlisting or Becoming an Officer Enlistment Process ASVAB (Enlisted Only) Officer Commissioning Process Joining Videos Get an inside look at the entry process with our Joining Videos collection. Service Branches Army Army Reserve Army National Guard Marine Corps Marine Corps Reserve Navy Navy Reserve Air Force Air Force Reserve Air National Guard Coast Guard Coast Guard Reserve Joining Videos Get an inside look at the entry process with our Joining Videos collection. Army Army Reserve Army National Guard Marine Corps Marine Corps Reserve Navy Navy Reserve Air Force Air Force Reserve Air National Guard Coast Guard Coast Guard Reserve Back Training Overview Once someone has committed to serving, it's time to get the training they need to succeed. Go to our Training Overview page Enlisted Boot Camp Advanced Training Officers Officer Candidate School ROTC Service Academies & Military Colleges Training Videos See the diverse types of training available to service members with our Training Videos collection. Training Videos See the diverse types of training available to service members with our Training Videos collection. Back Working Overview After a service member has completed his or her career training, it's time to put what they've learned to use. Go to our Working Overview page Careers & Pay Careers Fields & Profiles Compensation Estimator Skills for a Civilian Career Working Videos See the many types of careers available to service members with our Working Videos collection. Working Videos See the many types of careers available to service members with our Working Videos collection. Back Living Overview It's not all about work in the Military. Learn about the benefits service members receive and what they do to relax. Go to our Living Overview page Benefits Paying for College Insurance & Retirement Benefits Discounts & Perks Bases Around the World World Travel Family & Housing Family & Social Life Military Housing Living Videos See the variety of ways service members enjoy their free time with our Living Videos collection. Living Videos See the variety of ways service members enjoy their free time with our Living Videos collection. Back Inside Look Discover what drew service members to the Military, how they train, how they work and more. Go to the Inside Look Overview page Stories Stories Overview José Gutierrez Rachelle Nielsen   Alex Burtness Corrin Campbell Nathanael Kruse Videos Video Library Back Parents & Educators Here's the info parents and educators need to help support the young adults in their lives. Go to our Parents & Educators page Parents Parents' Stories Supporting Your Child Educators Order DVDs & Magazines Futures Magazine Request Information FAQs Search ENG / ESP Request Info Search Menu Back José Gutierrez Rachelle Nielsen Alex Burtness Corrin Campbell Nathanael Kruse You Have A Calling. We Have An Answer. From helping others to protecting communities to solving problems, the Military can help you fulfill your passions. Explore the unique journeys of service members who followed their calling. Explore their stories Serving Part Time By becoming a Reservist or joining the Guard, you can serve your country on a part-time basis. You can pursue a civilian career or attend college while participating in training drills one weekend a month and two weeks a year. Discover Types of Military Service First Steps When it comes to learning about the Military, knowing where to start your research may seem daunting. Don't worry — we have the answers. Our guide to military service begins here, with the first of our comprehensive overview pages. Go to our Joining Overview page Parents & Educators A meaningful career. A rewarding education. Help the young adults in your life be informed as possible about the Military. Get the information you need to help them see whether service fits with or can help them discover their true calling. Go to our Parents & Educators page Paying For College The Military offers multiple ways to receive a paid education both during and after service. Learn about full tuition scholarships, financial aid, student loan repayment programs and more. Go to our Education Support page First Steps When it comes to learning about the Military, knowing where to start your research may seem daunting. Don't worry — we have the answers. Our guide to military service begins here, with the first of our comprehensive overview pages. Go to our Joining Overview page First Steps When it comes to learning about the Military, knowing where to start your research may seem daunting. Don't worry — we have the answers. Our guide to military service begins here, with the first of our comprehensive overview pages. Go to our Joining Overview page It's A Calling You Have A Calling. We Have An Answer. From helping others to protecting communities to solving problems, the Military can help you fulfill your passions. Explore the unique journeys of service members who followed their calling. Explore their stories Serving Part Time Serving Part Time By becoming a Reservist or joining the Guard, you can serve your country on a part-time basis. You can pursue a civilian career or attend college while participating in training drills one weekend a month and two weeks a year. Discover Types of Military Service First Steps First Steps When it comes to learning about the Military, knowing where to start your research may seem daunting. Don't worry — we have the answers. Our guide to military service begins here, with the first of our comprehensive overview pages. Go to our Joining Overview page Parents & Educators Parents & Educators A meaningful career. A rewarding education. Help the young adults in your life be informed as possible about the Military. Get the information you need to help them see whether service fits with or can help them discover their true calling. Go to our Parents & Educators page Paying For College Paying For College The Military offers multiple ways to receive a paid education both during and after service. Learn about full tuition scholarships, financial aid, student loan repayment programs and more. Go to our Education Support page Learn more about the military Joining Learning about service begins here. Training Boot camp and job training. Working Explore career options. Living Education benefits and more. For Parents & Educators Parents' Stories Interviews with real military parents. For Educators Info and resources for teachers. Fact Sheets Downloadable guides to service. FAQs Common questions parents have. Learn About The Military Service Branches The U.S. Military consists of five active-duty service branches and their respective Guard and Reserve units. Together, they offer a broad variety of ways to serve. Army Army Reserve Army National Guard Marine Corps Marine Corps Reserve Navy Navy Reserve Air Force Air Force Reserve Air National Guard Coast Guard Coast Guard Reserve Search Joining Training Working Living Inside Look Guidance Language: English Español About Us Privacy Policy External Link Policy Site Accessibility FAQs Lang: Eng Esp About Us Privacy Policy External Link Policy Site Accessibility FAQs Tools Request Information Bases Around the World Compensation Estimator  2016 Today's Military Produced by the Department of Defense
