#ThisURL#
https://phoenixsuns.requestitem.com/
#SubURL#
https://www.biddingforgood.com/online-auction-services/?utm_source=logo&utm_medium=footer&utm_campaign=airs
http://www.nba.com/suns/community-relations/cr-home
http://www.biddingforgood.com/online-auction-services/privacy.htm
http://www.suns.com/community
https://www.biddingforgood.com/online-auction-services/index.html?utm_source=logo&utm_medium=header&utm_campaign=airs
http://go.biddingforgood.com/airs-items
#Title#
Phoenix Suns - Donation Request Form
#Content#
Phoenix Suns Thank you for your interest in the Phoenix Suns. Here at the Suns, we take pride in giving back to our community by helping to support a variety of nonprofits across the Valley. Our goal is to fulfill as many donation requests as possible. We are only able to consider requests which will be used in support of fundraising that benefit organizations with initiatives in children's literacy and education, youth and family development, health and fitness. To be considered for a donation request, please note that your organization must adhere to the following criteria: The requesting organization must be a valid 501(c)3 non-profit organization located in Arizona and will need to include the 501(c)3 number in the request being made Requests to be considered need to be received four (4) weeks prior to the date of your event Due to the amount of requests received, we limit our giving to one (1) donation per fiscal year (July 1-June 30) Unfortunately, we are not able to fulfill the following types of requests: to individuals (i.e. for medical bills or other personal expenses), to third parties fundraising on behalf of another organization, to teams (i.e. sponsorship of Little League or AAU teams), for travel-related expenses and to charitable causes outside of Arizona. Please note that donation items are granted based on availability and each request will be considered on a case by case basis. The organization requesting the donation will be contacted by email or phone, regardless of whether or not the request is approved or denied. Request A Donation All fields are required unless indicated otherwise. What would you like us to donate? 
 Event Type Select your event type Live Auction/Auctioneer Silent Auction Online Auction Raffle/Door Prize Peer to Peer Fundraising Event (Walkathon, Ride, Run, etc) Other Tell Us Why 
Please provide information on your good work and tell us how you will acknowledge this donation at your event.It would also be helpful to understand your fundraising goals. Maximum 4000 characters. Attachment Attach your organization's letterhead or proof of 501(c)(3) status as a single PDF or Word document. Tell Us About Your Organization What is your organization's name? What is your role within your organization? Select your role Auction Committee Chair Board Member Development Staff Executive Director Professional Event Planner Volunteer Other What is your organization's website? What is your organization's EIN (Tax Id)? Only enter if your organization has a 501(c)(3) status. Organization Cause Select your cause Animal Welfare Arts, Culture and Humanities Civil Rights, Social Action and Advocacy Community Improvement Corporate Giving Education: Higher Ed Education: K-12 Environment Faith Food, Agriculture and Nutrition Health Care Human Services Mutual & Membership Benefit Radio, Television and Media Sports and Recreation Other Causes How Do We Contact You? First Name Last Name Email Phone Alternate Phone (Optional) Address Country Afghanistan Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic Of The Cook Islands Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Côte D'Ivoire Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard and McDonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic Of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People's Republic Of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, the Former Yugoslav Republic Of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States Of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestine, State of Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Réunion Saint Barthélemy Saint Helena Saint Kitts And Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin Saint Pierre And Miquelon Saint Vincent And The Grenedines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard And Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Republic Of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Åland Islands ZIP Code City State Select Your State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas Armed Forces Americas Armed Forces Europe Armed Forces Pacific California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Region Tell Us About Your Event Event Date About how many people will be attending? less than 100 100-200 200-300 300-400 400-500 500+ What is the fundraising goal for your event (auction proceeds, ticket sales, cash donations, etc.)? less than $5k $5 - $20k $20 - $50k $50 - $100k $100 - $250k $250k - $1 million more than $1 million Please send me information regarding fundrasing opportunities with the Phoenix Suns. About Us Here at the Suns, we take pride in giving back to our community by helping to support a variety of nonprofits across the Valley. Suns Community Find Us 201 E. Jefferson Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 US Phone: (602) 379-7900   Need Auction Items? Get some serious inspiration with 101 Item Ideas. It’s sure to help you build a great catalog. Download And Get Inspired Copyright © 2016 BiddingForGood, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BiddingForGood Privacy Policy (UPDATED)
