#ThisURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Military_Studies.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Military_Studies.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/hayward%2C_california_%28ca%29_colleges.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/articles/Land_Navigation_Class_and_Course_Information.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Military Studies
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Military Studies Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Military Studies Military Studies Military studies programs focus on understanding the nature of diplomacy and armed conflict. Completing an academic program in this field can lead to a career in the military or as a civilian specialist in military history or intelligence. Read on to find out if this field is right for you. Inside Military Studies Programs in military studies combine military history, diplomacy and humanistic studies to create effective leaders and scholars in the armed forces. Many programs in military studies are presented in the context of military service, such as Reserve Officers Training Corps. Civilian careers for those with degrees in military studies include teaching and research in military strategy or history. Military officers may retire after 20 years of service and may have the opportunity to work in locations around the world. Whether you'd like to become a military officer or a civilian employee in the field of military history or intelligence, Study.com offers a variety of information resources to help you begin your journey. Education Information Military studies programs are offered at degree levels from a minor focus in a bachelor's program to a master's degree. The curriculum for a degree or minor in military studies covers aspects of war and armed conflict, including historic regional conflicts, diplomatic issues and military strategy. Programs aimed at developing careers in the armed forces emphasize leadership. Military history provides a contextual study, shifting in focus from chronology-based courses, such as the Vietnam War, to historic themes, such as armored warfare. A broad curriculum also includes courses in the humanities, such as philosophy, political science or sociology. Many undergraduate military studies programs are designed for ROTC students, which include courses in history, land navigation and leadership, to name a few. Take a look at the articles below to learn more about academic options for this field of study. How ROTC Programs Work ROTC Academic Programs ROTC Land Navigation Course Military History Ph.D. Distance Learning Options Online courses and degree programs can be found in military studies, but are more commonly found in the related fields of military science and military history. Free Military Science Education Options Online Military Science Degree Programs Online Military History Degree Programs Career Options You can apply your military studies education as a military officer or in a variety of civilian roles. Study.com's resources demonstrate how a background in military studies might help support the following career options. Army Careers Military Officer Military Historian Military Intelligence Specialist Employment Information Salaries of military officers vary depending on their function and branch of service, but in general, officers earn a higher starting salary than enlisted personnel. In addition to their monthly salaries, military members receive free housing or a housing allowance and, if eligible, education funding among other benefits. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), employment levels in the Armed Forces are expected to stay about the same from 2012-2022 (www.bls.gov). Approximately 155,000 individuals must join the military annually in order to adequately replace those retiring or leaving the Armed Forces, the BLS also noted. For those who are interested in teaching a subject related to military studies, such as military history, employment opportunities are expected to increase 14% for postsecondary history teachers in the 2012-2022 decade. BLS data from May 2013 shows these educators earning a mean wage of $74,100 annually. Read more Military Studies Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Masters Degree in Military Studies: Program Information A Master of Arts in Military Studies program incorporates history, international relations, political science, economics and philosophy.... Should I Join the Military? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Are you debating whether or not to pursue a military career? Take our self-assessment quiz below to gauge how well your personality and... 10 Perfect Majors for Students with Military Experience Anyone who serves in a branch of the military gains useful skills. If you're considering college after military service, you can use the... Masters Degrees in Military History Military History Degree Military History Schools Distance Learning Schooling in Military History Photography Studies 15 Scholarships for Students in the Military Best Military Student Resource, People's Choice Awards Online Masters Degree in Broadcasting: Program Overview Research online broadcasting courses and programs. Find out what you can learn in these courses and what you'll need in order to participate... Nurse Practitioner Vs. Physician Assistant: What's the Difference? Nurse practitioners (NPs) and physician assistants (PAs) are healthcare workers who typically work under the supervision of licensed... General Pediatrician: Job Description, Duties and Requirements How to Become a Labor and Delivery Nurse Chartered Accountant Job, Salary and Career Information Top Ranked Master's in Public Administration Degree - Atlanta, GA What Is a Content Writer? Hayward, California (CA) Colleges While there are only three public and private not-for-profit schools in Hayward, there are many schools located within a 10-mile radius.... How to Become a Food Technologist Career Guide Research the requirements to become a food technologist. Learn about the job, and read about the step-by-step process to start a career in... Chicago West, Illinois (IL) Colleges Top Schools for Medical Administrative Assistant or Secretary Online Computer-Aided Drafting and Design Bachelors Degrees Be a Registered Nurse Paralegal Education and Career Roadmap Health Care Degree in NJ Military Studies Related Videos Paralegal Studies Career Video: Becoming a Paralegal Human Anatomy and Physiology Coursework Overview for the Medical Professions Religion and Theology Degrees Video: Career Options Exercise Sciences Career Video: Earning a Degree in Exercise Science and Fitness Studies Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Military Studies Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA in History - Military History MA in History MA in History - American History MA in History - Public History Bachelor BA in History - Military History BA in History - American History BA General Studies BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Middle Eastern History Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Norwich University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Arts in Military History Online Master of Arts in History Online Get Started with Norwich University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 5Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Social Work - Military Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 6Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology - Therapy with Military Families Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of General Studies Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 8Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 9University of Idaho School Info School locations: Idaho (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Idaho include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Post Master's Certificate Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Get Started with University of Idaho Research University of Idaho's Programs 10Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Professional and Liberal Studies Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University BA in Military Studies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MA in History - Military History MA in History MA in History - American History MA in History - Public History BA in History - Military History BA in History - American History BA General Studies BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Middle Eastern History View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 Grand Canyon University Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Norwich University Master of Arts in Military History Online Master of Arts in History Online What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 5 Walden University Master of Social Work - Military What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 6 Northcentral University Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology - Therapy with Military Families What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7 Baker College Online Bachelor of General Studies When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 8 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 9 University of Idaho 10 Saint Joseph's University BS in Professional and Liberal Studies During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
