#ThisURL#
http://www.apple.com/safari/download/
#SubURL#
http://www.apple.com/us/shop/goto/help
http://www.apple.com/support/
http://www.apple.com/safari/download/#ac-gf-directory-column-section-state-responsibility
http://www.apple.com/contact/
http://www.apple.com/us/shop/goto/special_deals
http://www.apple.com/diversity/
http://www.apple.com/ipod/
http://www.apple.com/safari/download/#ac-gf-directory-column-section-state-education
http://www.apple.com/us/shop/goto/account
http://www.apple.com/sitemap/
https://locate.apple.com/
https://www.icloud.com
https://itunes.apple.com/app/apple-store/id375380948?mt=8
https://developer.apple.com/safari/
https://appleid.apple.com/us/
http://investor.apple.com
https://safari-extensions.apple.com/
#Title#
OS X - Safari - Apple
#Content#
Open Menu Close Menu Apple Shopping Bag Apple Mac iPad iPhone Watch TV Music Support Search apple.com Shopping Bag Safari The best way to see the sites. The best browser for your Mac is the one that comes with your Mac. Safari is faster and more energy efficient than other browsers, so sites are more responsive and your notebook battery lasts longer between charges. Built-in privacy features help keep your browsing your business. Handy tools help you save, find, and share your favorites. And Safari works with iCloud to let you browse seamlessly across all your devices. Longer battery life and faster performance. With a blazing-fast JavaScript engine and energy-saving technologies, Safari is a faster, more enjoyable way to explore the web. Browse longer. Watch more. Safari is engineered specifically for Mac, so it takes advantage of the powerful technologies built into every one. And Safari now offers native support for Netflix. So compared with Chrome and Firefox, you can browse for up to two hours longer1 and watch Netflix videos up to four hours longer.2 +2 hours browsing compared to Chrome and Firefox +4 hours watching Netflix videos compared to Chrome and Firefox Faster than Chrome and Firefox. Browsing with Safari is blazing fast thanks to advanced JavaScript engine optimizations that make websites and web applications feel snappier. JetStream: JavaScript performance on advanced web applications3 Safari 1.15x faster Chrome 1.07x faster Firefox Baseline 0.5 1 1.5 Speedometer: Web application responsiveness4 Safari 2.2x faster Chrome 1.8x faster Firefox Baseline 1 1.5 2 2.5 JSBench: JavaScript performance on popular websites5 Safari 6.0x faster Chrome 1.0x Firefox Baseline 1 2 3 4 5 6 Defending your online privacy and security. Privacy and security aren’t just something you should hope for — they’re something you should expect. That’s why features to help protect your privacy and keep your Mac secure are built into Safari. For example, it’s the only browser to offer DuckDuckGo — a search engine that doesn’t track you — as a built-in option. Private Browsing windows. When you use Private Browsing, Safari doesn’t remember the pages you visit, your search history, or your AutoFill information. Each tab in a Private Browsing window is isolated from the others, so websites you view in one tab can’t see your cookies from websites in another tab. This helps prevent websites you're logged in to from tracking you as you browse. Third-party cookie blocking. The web pages you visit often leave cookies from third-party websites. These cookies can be used to track where you go on the web, target you with ads, or create a profile of your online activities. Safari was the first browser to block these cookies by default. And by default it also prevents third-party websites from leaving data in your cache, local storage, or databases. Protection from harmful sites. Safari helps protect you against fraudulent Internet sites and those that harbor malware — before you visit them. If a website looks suspicious, Safari prevents it from loading and warns you. Sandboxing for websites. Sandboxing provides built-in protection against malicious code and malware by restricting what websites can do. And because Safari runs web pages in separate processes, any harmful code you come across in one page is confined to a single browser tab, so it can’t crash the whole browser or access your data. Surf seamlessly across all your devices. Not only does Safari come on every Mac, it comes on every iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch, too. And thanks to iCloud, your passwords, bookmarks, history, tabs, and Reading List are always up to date no matter which device you’re using. With Tab view, the last websites you had open on your Mac are available in Safari on your iPad, iPhone, and iPod touch — and vice versa. So you can go from one device to another without having to search for the web pages you were reading. iCloud Keychain securely stores your user names, passwords, and credit card numbers and keeps them up to date on your trusted devices. So you can easily sign in to your favorite websites and quickly make online purchases. And everything is protected with robust 256-bit AES encryption. With Bookmarks in Safari, your favorite sites are always close at hand. Bookmark a web page on your Mac, and it automatically appears on all your iCloud-connected devices. Save web pages you want to read later simply by adding them to your Reading List. Then view them on any of your iCloud-connected devices — even if you’re not connected to the Internet. Tab View iCloud Keychain Bookmarks Reading List Built-in tools for better browsing. New features in Safari help you surf smarter and easily manage and share what you find. Pinned Sites. Keep websites you visit often — like your webmail, Facebook page, or Twitter feed — open, up to date, and easily accessible by pinning them. They’ll stay active in the background, and they’ll stay put on the left side of your tab bar. AirPlay web video. Play video from a web page to your TV with Apple TV — without showing everything else on your desktop. Just click the AirPlay icon that appears on compatible web videos and you can watch your video on the big screen. Mute a tab. Want to stop the music without hunting for the tab it’s coming from? Now you can mute it right from the Smart Search field. If you’re listening to audio in one tab and another website starts to play, you can mute the one you don’t want to hear. And if what you really want is silence, you can mute all audio from your browser, too. Spotlight suggestions. With Spotlight built into every Mac, you’re never far from the information you want. As you type in the Smart Search field, you’ll see Spotlight suggestions from sources like Wikipedia, news sites, Maps, iTunes, movie listings, weather, stocks, and sports.6 Share menu. Share anything you come across on the web without leaving Safari. Just click the Share button, then choose how you want to send it off. Use Mail, Messages, or AirDrop or add it to a note. Tweet or post to Facebook and even include comments and locations. A single sign-on sets up sharing to Facebook and Twitter, so you only need to log in once. Reader. View news stories and other articles in a layout that’s optimized for easy reading. Reader lets you focus on the text without being distracted by ads. You can customize your view by selecting your font size and style, and choose Sepia and Night themes. Developers Safari is built on WebKit, the industry-leading open source rendering engine. It includes powerful built-in tools, like Web Inspector, that let developers create advanced web applications. And it continues to support technologies that enable innovation on the web. Learn more Extensions Safari Extensions are a great way to bring new features to Safari. Customize your browsing experience by adding your favorite extensions. View gallery Apple Footer Testing conducted by Apple in August 2015 using 2.7GHz Intel Core i5-based 13-inch MacBook Pro systems with 8GB of RAM and prerelease OS X v10.11. Tested with prerelease Safari 9.0, Chrome v44.0.2403.157 and Firefox v40.0.2. Systems tested with WPA2 Wi-Fi network connection while running on battery power, with display brightness set to 12 clicks from bottom or 75%. Not all features are available on all devices. Performance will vary based on system configuration, application workload, and other factors. Testing conducted by Apple in August 2015 using 2.7GHz Intel Core i5-based 13-inch MacBook Pro systems with 8GB of RAM and prerelease OS X v10.11. Prerelease Safari 9.0 tested with HD 1080p Netflix content; Chrome v44.0.2403.157 tested with SD Netflix content; Firefox v40.0.2 tested with SD Netflix content and Silverlight plug-in v5.1.40728.0. Systems tested with WPA2 Wi-Fi network connection while running on battery power, with display brightness set to 12 clicks from bottom or 75%. Not all features are available on all devices. Performance will vary based on system configuration, application workload, and other factors. Testing conducted by Apple in August 2015 using JetStream 1.1 performance benchmark on 2.2GHz Intel Core i7-based 15-inch MacBook Pro systems with 16GB of RAM and prerelease OS X v10.11. Tested with prerelease Safari 9.0, Chrome v44.0.2403.157 and Firefox v40.0.2, with WPA2 Wi-Fi network connection. Performance will vary based on system configuration, network connection, and other factors. Testing conducted by Apple in August 2015 using Speedometer 1.0 performance benchmark on 2.2GHz Intel Core i7-based 15-inch MacBook Pro systems with 16GB of RAM and prerelease OS X v10.11. Tested with prerelease Safari 9.0, Chrome v44.0.2403.157 and Firefox v40.0.2, with WPA2 Wi-Fi network connection. Performance will vary based on system configuration, network connection, and other factors. Testing conducted by Apple in August 2015 using JSBench 2013.1 performance benchmark on 2.2GHz Intel Core i7-based 15-inch MacBook Pro systems with 16GB of RAM and prerelease OS X v10.11. Tested with prerelease Safari 9.0, Chrome v44.0.2403.157 and Firefox v40.0.2, with WPA2 Wi-Fi network connection. Performance will vary based on system configuration, network connection, and other factors. Spotlight suggestions are not available in all countries.  Apple Mac Safari Shop and Learn Open Menu Close Menu Mac iPad iPhone Watch TV Music iTunes iPod Accessories Gift Cards Apple Store Open Menu Close Menu Find a Store Genius Bar Workshops and Learning Youth Programs Apple Store App Refurbished Financing Reuse and Recycling Order Status Shopping Help For Education Open Menu Close Menu Apple and Education Shop for College For Business Open Menu Close Menu iPhone in Business iPad in Business Mac in Business Shop for Your Business Account Open Menu Close Menu Manage Your Apple ID Apple Store Account iCloud.com Apple Values Open Menu Close Menu Environment Supplier Responsibility Accessibility Privacy Inclusion and Diversity Education About Apple Open Menu Close Menu Apple Info Job Opportunities Press Info Investors Events Hot News Contact Apple More ways to shop: Visit an Apple Store, call 1-800-MY-APPLE, or find a reseller. United States Copyright © 2016 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Legal Site Map
