#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_a_Preschool_Teacher_Online.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Education/Teacher_Education_for_Specific_Levels_and_Methods.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Northcentral_University_Master_of_Education_-_Curriculum_Teaching.html
http://study.com/program/Northcentral_University_PhD_in_Education_-_Sports_Management.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/Preschool_Teacher_How_to_Become_a_Preschool_Teacher.html
http://study.com/articles/Music_Producer_Job_Summary_and_Educational_Requirements_for_a_Career_in_Music_Production.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
How to Become a Preschool Teacher Online
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Education  /  Teacher Education for Specific Levels and Methods  /  Teaching, Kindergarten and Preschool Education Teacher Education for Specific Levels and Methods Teacher Education, Multiple Levels Teaching, Adults Teaching, Elementary Teaching, High School Teaching, Junior High Teaching, Waldorf and Steiner Education Teaching, Young Children Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Articles about Online Education  /  Education  /  How to Become a Preschool Teacher Online How to Become a Preschool Teacher Online States have several different requirements for preschool teachers - from high school to specific college majors and certification. Online programs designed to qualify graduates for this position are plentiful and varied. Make sure to check with state regulations to ensure these programs meet the necessary requirements. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Preschool Teacher Education Requirements Every state determines what formal training, if any, is necessary at the postsecondary level in order to work as a preschool teacher. Those seeking degrees that can help them gain employment or advance might wish to pursue a certificate, associate degree or bachelor's degree in early childhood education. This field encompasses the education of preschool or pre-kindergarten students. Programs usually focus on preparing caregivers to work with children from birth through age five; however, some offer courses that cover education methods for students through roughly third grade. Head Start Program Overview and Education Requirements Private preschool institutions or childcare centers may have their own training curriculum and hiring requirements that are not governed by the state. For example, Head Start programs focus on the social and educational development of preschoolers and assists families nationwide. They're available through a wide variety of partner schools and organizations to provide nutrition, social interaction, education and health services for underprivileged and at-risk children. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Head Start teachers are all expected to have at least an associate degree, and at least half of these educators throughout the country are required to have bachelor's degrees. Online Program Options Distance-learning options in early childhood education are mainly available at the undergraduate level and are found at community colleges, four-year universities and career schools. Prospective teachers may need to complete local field experiences to earn their degrees, but online coursework can be completed in a virtual classroom housing lectures and assignments. They may also be interested in hybrid programs, which allow them to complete some classes and experiential components on campus. Certificate Program In less time than it takes to earn an associate degree, students can undertake an online certificate program to acquire the education necessary to prepare infants and toddlers for formal school settings. Some prior experience in the field may be necessary. Students may be able to specifically focus on preschool environments. Associate Degree Program Students in an associate degree program in early childhood education learn about youth development and how best to teach different grade levels based on such. Most of these 2-year programs qualify professionals for state licensure where applicable or help to secure jobs working with infants and toddlers in a care-giving setting. Bachelor's Degree Program Early childhood education bachelor's degree programs teach students how to best educate young children before they begin elementary school. Lessons discuss classroom management, child development, literacy and student assessment. While on-campus courses are not required, students must complete fieldwork courses with preschool children. These programs typically last four years. Show me 10 popular schools Related to How to Become a Preschool Teacher Online RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Preschool Teacher Video: Educational Requirements for Preschool Teachers School Teacher Careers Preschool Teacher Certification Preschool Teacher Requirements Preschool Teacher Preschool Teacher Training Becoming a Preschool Teacher Preschool Teacher: How to Become a Preschool Teacher Preschool teacher positions sometimes require formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and certification... Preschool Teacher Educational Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a preschool teacher. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as... Preschool Teacher: Job Duties & Requirements Preschool teachers play a vital role in the development of children. Find out the basic education and skills required. Get... How to Become a Certified Preschool Teacher Research the requirements to become a certified preschool teacher. Learn about the job description and duties and read the... Online Preschool Teacher Degree Program Options Preschool Teacher Qualifications Online Teacher Certification Online Schools for Becoming a Preschool Teacher: How to Choose Could Ms. Frizzle Be a D.C. Teacher? 5 Great Ideas for Teacher Appreciation Week Online Masters Degree in Kinesiology: Program Overview Marketing Manager: Career Info & Requirements Music Producer: Job Summary & Education Requirements Online Radiology Continuing Education Information Wisconsin Teacher Protests Spread to Other States How to Become a TOEFL Teacher Communications Manager: Job Description, Duties and Requirement Online Bachelor's Degree in Public Safety: Program Info How to Become a Teacher with a Bachelor's Degree Top Massage Therapy School - San Jose CA Legal Studies Top Rated Law School - Atlanta GA Top Ranked Criminal Justice Degree Program - Nashville TN Connecticut Nursing Schools How Can I Start Training to Be a Paramedic in Sacramento California Top Rated Computer Programming Courses - Charlotte NC Top Rated Computer Networking School - Lexington KY Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Kaplan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED 🌟 Graduate faster & save money with Study.com transfer credit 🌟 Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Education (for Practicing Teachers Grades K-12) MS in Education - Instructional Technology (K-12) MA in Teaching (for Aspiring Teachers Grades 5-12) MS in Higher Ed - College Teaching and Learning Bachelor BS in Early Childhood Administration Undergraduate in Early Childhood Get Started with Kaplan University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school 2Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Behavioral Health Master M.Ed. in Early Childhood M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.Ed. in Elementary Education M.Ed. in Secondary Education MA in Curriculum and Instruction Bachelor BS in Early Childhood Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Non-Degree Graduate Certificate of Completion in Elementary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Graduate Certificate of Completion in Secondary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 3Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ed.D. in Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D. in Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D in General Education Master Master of Education - Early Childhood Education Master of Education - Curriculum & Teaching Master of Education - General Education MEd in PK-12 Principal Leadership Non-Degree Education Specialist in Early Childhood Education Education Specialist in Curriculum and Teaching Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 4Indiana Wesleyan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Associate Associate of Science in Early Childhood Education Get Started with Indiana Wesleyan University What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED 5University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Master Master of Arts in Education Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 6Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Teaching & Learning Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 7Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Education - Early Childhood Education Ph.D. in Education - Early Childhood and Primary Education Doctor of Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - Self-Designed Ph.D. in Education - Curriculum, Instruction and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - General Master MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching Adults in the Early Childhood Field MS in Early Childhood Studies - Administration, Management and Leadership MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching and Diversity in Early Childhood Education MS in Early Childhood Studies - Early Childhood Public Policy and Advocacy Non-Degree Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Early Childhood Education Ed.S. in Educational Leadership & Administration (Principal Preparation) - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Psychology - Child & Adolescent Dev. Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 9Rasmussen College School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in AcceleratED Early Childhood Education Leadership Associate AS in Early Childhood Education : Child & Family Studies AS in Early Childhood Education : Special Needs AS in Early Childhood Education : English Language Learners AS in Early Childhood Education: Child Development Non-Degree Certificate in ECE Get Started with Rasmussen College What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Associate's Bachelor's Master's Doctorate's No High School Degree/GED 10Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Educational Effectiveness (K - 12) Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - Higher Education Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - K - 12 MS in Educational Effectiveness (Higher Education) Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Counseling and Guidance Curriculum and Instruction Educational Administration and Supervision Educational Evaluation and Research ESL Teaching International and Comparative Education Library Science and Related Professions Philosophical Foundations of Education Special Education Teacher Education for Specific Levels and Methods Teacher Education for Specific Subject Areas Teaching Assistant Select your specialty subject area Teacher Education, Multiple Levels Teaching, Adults Teaching, Elementary Teaching, High School Teaching, Junior High Teaching, Kindergarten and Preschool Teaching, Waldorf and Steiner Education Teaching, Young Children What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Kaplan University MS in Education (for Practicing Teachers Grades K-12) MS in Education - Instructional Technology (K-12) MA in Teaching (for Aspiring Teachers Grades 5-12) MS in Higher Ed - College Teaching and Learning BS in Early Childhood Administration Undergraduate in Early Childhood View more Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 2 Grand Canyon University Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Behavioral Health M.Ed. in Early Childhood M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.Ed. in Elementary Education M.Ed. in Secondary Education MA in Curriculum and Instruction BS in Early Childhood Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Graduate Certificate of Completion in Elementary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Graduate Certificate of Completion in Secondary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 3 Northcentral University Ed.D. in Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Early Childhood Education PhD in Education - Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D. in Curriculum & Teaching Ed.D in General Education Master of Education - Early Childhood Education Master of Education - Curriculum & Teaching Master of Education - General Education MEd in PK-12 Principal Leadership Education Specialist in Early Childhood Education Education Specialist in Curriculum and Teaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 4 Indiana Wesleyan University Associate of Science in Early Childhood Education What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED 5 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Master of Arts in Education What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 6 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 7 Walden University Doctor of Education - Early Childhood Education Ph.D. in Education - Early Childhood and Primary Education Doctor of Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - Self-Designed Ph.D. in Education - Curriculum, Instruction and Assesment Ph.D. in Education - General MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching Adults in the Early Childhood Field MS in Early Childhood Studies - Administration, Management and Leadership MS in Early Childhood Studies - Teaching and Diversity in Early Childhood Education MS in Early Childhood Studies - Early Childhood Public Policy and Advocacy Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Early Childhood Education Ed.S. in Educational Leadership & Administration (Principal Preparation) - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8 Southern New Hampshire University BA in Psychology - Child & Adolescent Dev. What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 9 Rasmussen College BA in AcceleratED Early Childhood Education Leadership AS in Early Childhood Education : Child & Family Studies AS in Early Childhood Education : Special Needs AS in Early Childhood Education : English Language Learners AS in Early Childhood Education: Child Development Certificate in ECE When do you plan to enroll? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 10 Baker College Online MS in Educational Effectiveness (K - 12) Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - Higher Education Master of Science in Educational Effectiveness - K - 12 MS in Educational Effectiveness (Higher Education) View more When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
