#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 1940-1949 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 1940-1949 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 Casablanca 1942 They had a date with fate in Casablanca! Director: Michael Curtiz. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman, Paul Henreid, Claude Rains, Conrad Veidt, Sydney Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, Madeleine Lebeau, Dooley Wilson, Joy Page, John Qualen, Leonid Kinskey, Curt Bois, Marcel Dalio, Helmut Dantine. Overview: Casablanca is a classic and one of the most revered films of all time. Starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman in a love triangle in the city of Casablanca which is a refuge for many fleeing foreigners looking for a new life during the war. Political romance with a backdrop of war conflict between democracy and totalitarianism. A landmark in film history. Genres: Crime, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 It's a Wonderful Life 1946 It's a wonderful laugh! It's a wonderful love! Director: Frank Capra. Cast: James Stewart, Donna Reed, Lionel Barrymore, Thomas Mitchell, Henry Travers, Beulah Bondi, Frank Faylen, Todd Karns, Samuel S. Hinds, Georgie Nokes, Ward Bond, Gloria Grahame, H.B. Warner, Frank Albertson. Overview: An angel helps a compassionate but despairingly frustrated businessman by showing what life would had been like if he never existed. Genres: Drama, Fantasy, Holiday. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 Citizen Kane 1941 Everybody's talking about it! Director: Orson Welles. Cast: Joseph Cotten, Orson Welles, Agnes Moorehead, Ruth Warrick, Everett Sloane, George Coulouris, Dorothy Comingore, William Alland, Philip Van Zandt, Buddy Swan, Paul Stewart, Harry Shannon. Overview: Orson Wells was 26 when he made his first feature film Citizen Kane. The film became known as one of the greatest of all time and earned him international celebrity. The story is about the publishing business and how one thrill-seeker’s struggle for power negatively affected everybody he came in contact with and eventually lead to a merciless war. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 57m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Double Indemnity 1944 From the Moment they met it was Murder! Director: Billy Wilder. Cast: Fred MacMurray, Barbara Stanwyck, Edward G. Robinson, Porter Hall, Richard Gaines, Jean Heather, Tom Powers, Fortunio Bonanova, John Philliber. Overview: Double Indemnity is a film noir thriller from directory Billy Wilder from 1944 in which the protagonist sets up an insurance fraud. Genres: Drama, Film Noir, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 47m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 The Treasure of the Sierra Madre 1948 The nearer they get to their treasure, the farther they get from the law Director: John Huston. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Walter Huston, Tim Holt, Bruce Bennett, Barton MacLane, Alfonso Bedoya, Arturo Soto Rangel, Manuel Dondé, José Torvay, Margarito Luna, Robert Blake, John Huston. Overview: Fred C. Dobbs and Bob Curtin, both down on their luck in Tampico, Mexico in 1925, meet up with a grizzled prospector named Howard and decide to join with him in search of gold in the wilds of central Mexico. Through enormous difficulties, they eventually succeed in finding gold, but bandits, the elements, and most especially greed threaten to turn their success into disaster. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 6m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 The Third Man 1949 Hunted by men...Sought by WOMEN! Director: Carol Reed. Cast: Joseph Cotten, Alida Valli, Orson Welles, Trevor Howard, Bernard Lee, Paul Hörbiger, Siegfried Breuer, Wilfrid Hyde-White, Hedwig Bleibtreu, Annie Rosar, Erich Ponto, Ernst Deutsch. Overview: An American pulp writer arrives in post-WWII Vienna only to find that the friend who waited for him is killed under mysterious circumstances. The ensuing mystery entangles him in his friend's involvement in the black market, with the multinational police, and with his Czech girlfriend. Genres: Mystery, Thriller, Film Noir. Countries: Austria, United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 44m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 The Bicycle Thief 1949 Ladri di biciclette Director: Vittorio De Sica. Cast: Lamberto Maggiorani, Enzo Staiola, Lianella Carell, Carlo Jachino, Giulio Chiari. Overview: A man and his son search for a stolen bicycle vital for his job. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: Italy. Runtime: 1h 33m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 The Great Dictator 1940 Director: Charlie Chaplin. Cast: Charlie Chaplin, Charlie Chaplin, Jack Oakie, Reginald Gardiner, Henry Daniell, Billy Gilbert, Paul Weigel, Grace Hayle, Paulette Goddard, Maurice Moscovitch, Emma Dunn, Bernard Gorcey, Carter DeHaven, Eddie Gribbon, Rudolph Anders. Overview: Chaplin's first true "talking" picture, The Great Dictator daringly satirizes both Nazism and Adolf Hitler. Chaplin portrays both the dictator Adenoid Hynkel and the poor Jewish barber who is his look-alike. Genre: Comedy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 Rebecca 1940 The shadow of this woman darkened their love Director: Alfred Hitchcock. Cast: Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine, George Sanders, Judith Anderson, Nigel Bruce, Reginald Denny, Gladys Cooper, Florence Bates, Leo G. Carroll, Leonard Carey, Lumsden Hare, Edward Fielding, Forrester Harvey, Philip Winter, Alfred Hitchcock. Overview: Rebecca is a 1940 psychological/dramatic thriller directed by Alfred Hitchcock as his first American project. It stars Laurence Olivier as Maxim de Winter, Joan Fontaine as his second wife, and Judith Anderson as his late wife's housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers. The film is a gothic tale about the lingering memory of the title character, which still affects Maxim, his new bride, and Mrs. Danvers long after her death. The film won two Academy Awards, including Best Picture out of a total 11 nominations. Olivier, Fontaine and Anderson were all Oscar nominated for their respective roles. Since the introduction of awards for actors in supporting roles, this is the only film named Best Picture that won no other Academy Award for acting, directing or writing. It was the opening film at the 1st Berlin International Film Festival. With excellently played rolls and a story that never seems wrong this film is a true classic. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Romance, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 The Maltese Falcon 1941 A story as EXPLOSIVE as his BLAZING automatics! Director: John Huston. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Peter Lorre, Mary Astor, Gladys George, Barton MacLane, Lee Patrick, Sydney Greenstreet, Ward Bond, Jerome Cowan, Elisha Cook, Jr., James Burke, Murray Alper, John Hamilton. Overview: The Maltese Falcon is a mystery thriller detective film from John Huston starring Humphrey Bogart. The film is regarded as a landmark in the film-noir movement. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller, Film Noir. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 The Best Years of Our Lives 1946 Director: William Wyler. Cast: Fredric March, Myrna Loy, Dana Andrews, Teresa Wright, Virginia Mayo, Cathy O'Donnell, Hoagy Carmichael, Harold Russell, Gladys George, Roman Bohnen, Ray Collins, Minna Gombell, Walter Baldwin, Steve Cochran, Dorothy Adams. Overview: The Best Years of Our Lives is a classic film from director Williams Wyler about three war veterans. The film earned seven Oscars in 1946. Genres: Drama, History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 52m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 The Grapes of Wrath 1940 Directors: John Ford, Edward O'Fearna. Cast: Henry Fonda, Jane Darwell, John Carradine, Charley Grapewin, Dorris Bowdon, Russell Simpson, O.Z. Whitehead, John Qualen, Eddie Quillan, Zeffie Tilbury. Overview: The Grapes of Wrath is a social drama filmed in 1939 based on the novel by the same name from acclaimed author John Steinbeck. Genres: Drama, Road Movie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 8m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 Children of Paradise 1945 Les Enfants du Paradis Director: Marcel Carné. Cast: Arletty, Jean-Louis Barrault, Pierre Brasseur, María Casares, Marcel Herrand, Louis Salou, Pierre Renoir, Jane Marken, Marcel Herrand. Overview: Filmed during the German occupation, this French milestone centers around the theatrical life of a beautiful courtesan and the four men who love her. Voted the "Best French Film in History" by the French Film Academy in 1990. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Romance. Country: France. Runtime: 3h 10m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Notorious 1946 Notorious woman of affairs... Adventurous man of the world Director: Alfred Hitchcock. Cast: Cary Grant, Ingrid Bergman, Claude Rains, Louis Calhern, Leopoldine Konstantin, Reinhold Schünzel, Ivan Triesault, Alex Minotis, Eberhard Krumschmidt, Fred Nurney, Moroni Olsen, Wally Brown, Charles Mendl, Ricardo Costa. Overview: Released shortly after the war, this classic Hitchcock film illustrates the battle between German Nazis and American spies in Rio de Janeiro where a German businessman keeps a wine cellar with uranium ore. Genres: Drama, Suspense, Romance, Film Noir. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 The Big Sleep 1946 The picture they were born for! Director: Howard Hawks. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, John Ridgely, Martha Vickers, Dorothy Malone, Lauren Bacall, Peggy Knudsen, Charles Waldron, Regis Toomey, Charles D. Brown, Elisha Cook Jr., Louis Jean Heydt. Overview: Private Detective Philip Marlowe is hired by a rich family. Before the complex case is over, he's seen murder, blackmail, and what might be love. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 56m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Kind Hearts and Coronets 1949 Director: Robert Hamer. Cast: Dennis Price, Valerie Hobson, Joan Greenwood, Alec Guinness. Overview: Louis Mazzini's mother belongs to the aristocratic family D'Ascoyne, but she ran away with an opera singer. Therefore, she and Louis were rejected by the D'Ascoynes. Once adult, Louis decides to avenges his mother and him, by becoming the next Duke of the family. Murdering every potential successor is clearly the safest way to achieve his goal. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 46m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Sullivan's Travels 1941 The Creator of "Lady Eve" brings you his latest and most lilting laugh-fest! Director: Preston Sturges. Cast: Joel McCrea, Veronica Lake, Robert Warwick, William Demarest, Franklin Pangborn, Porter Hall, Byron Foulger, Margaret Hayes, Robert Greig, Eric Blore, Torben Meyer, Victor Potel, Richard Webb, Charles R. Moore, Almira Sessions. Overview: Sullivan is a successful, spoiled, and naive director of fluff films, with a heart-o-gold, who decides he wants to make a film about the troubles of the downtrodden poor. Much to the chagrin of his producers, he sets off in tramp's clothing with a single dime in his pocket to experience poverty first-hand, and gets a reality shock... Genres: Adventure, Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 30m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 The Red Shoes 1948 Directors: Michael Powell, Emeric Pressburger. Cast: Anton Walbrook, Moira Shearer, Léonide Massine, Robert Helpmann, Albert Bassermann, Esmond Knight, Ludmilla Tchérina, Marius Goring. Overview: The Powell and Pressburger classic is widely considered to be one of the greatest films ever made. Vicky Page, a young ballerina, becomes torn between her love for composer Julian Craster and artistic devotion to her profession, which is dominated by impresario Lermontov. Winner of two Academy Awards the film is visually one of the most innovative and beautiful works of cinema. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Musical, Romance. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 13m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 White Heat 1949 Pick up the pieces folks, Jimmy's in action again! Director: Raoul Walsh. Cast: James Cagney, Virginia Mayo, Edmond O'Brien, Margaret Wycherly, Steve Cochran, John Archer, Wally Cassell, Fred Clark, Paul Guilfoyle, Ford Rainey, Robert Foulk, Ian MacDonald, Robert Osterloh. Overview: A psychopathic criminal (Cagney) with a mother complex makes a daring break from prison and then leads his old gang in a chemical plant payroll heist. After the heist, events take a crazy turn. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 54m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 The Heiress 1949 Director: William Wyler. Cast: Olivia de Havilland, Montgomery Clift, Ralph Richardson, Miriam Hopkins, Vanessa Brown. Overview: Dull and plain Catherine (Olivia de Havilland) lives with her emotionally distant father, Dr. Sloper (Ralph Richardson), in 1840s New York. Her days are empty -- filled with little more than needlepoint. Enter handsome Morris Townsend (Montgomery Clift), a dashing social climber with his eye on the spinster's heart and substantial inheritance. William Wyler's Oscar-winning film is an adaptation of the Henry James novel Washington Square. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 55m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 The Ox-Bow Incident 1943 Director: William A. Wellman. Cast: Henry Fonda, Dana Andrews, Mary Beth Hughes, Anthony Quinn, Jane Darwell, Matt Briggs, Frank Conroy, Marc Lawrence, William Eythe, Paul Hurst, Victor Kilian. Overview: The Ox-Bow Incident is a western film from William A. Wellman and starring Henry Fonda. The year is 1943, it’s the middle of World War 2, and makes an exceptional message about anti-heroism. Genres: Action, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 15m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Rome, Open City 1946 Roma, Città Aperta Director: Roberto Rossellini. Cast: Aldo Fabrizi, Anna Magnani, Francesco Grandjacquet, Marcello Pagliero, Harry Feist, Maria Michi, Vito Annichiarico, Ákos Tolnay, Joop van Hulzen, Carla Rovere, Giovanna Galletti. Overview: Open City is a landmark in film history. Filmed in secrecy during the Nazi occupation of Italy, the film shows a realistic portrayal of the underground resistance in Italy in 1945. The film has strong impacting imagery with it’s mix of fiction and reality that strengthened Italian Neo-realism and the film industry. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Country: Italy. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Laura 1944 The story of a love that became the most fearful thing that ever happened to a woman! Director: Otto Preminger. Cast: Gene Tierney, Dana Andrews, Clifton Webb, Vincent Price, Judith Anderson, Dorothy Adams, Kathleen Howard. Overview: A police detective falls in love with the woman whose murder he's investigating. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Romance, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 28m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Brief Encounter 1945 Director: David Lean. Cast: Celia Johnson, Trevor Howard, Stanley Holloway, Joyce Carey, Cyril Raymond, Everley Gregg, Marjorie Mars, Margaret Barton. Overview: Brief Encounter is a classic from British director David Lean about two people who fall in love yet face the fact that they are already married and can never be together. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Romance. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 26m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 To Be or Not To Be 1942 Director: Ernst Lubitsch. Cast: Carole Lombard, Jack Benny, Robert Stack, Felix Bressart, Lionel Atwill, Stanley Ridges, Sig Ruman, Tom Dugan, Charles Halton, Henry Victor, Maude Eburne. Overview: During the Nazi occupation of Poland, an acting troupe becomes embroiled in a Polish soldier's efforts to track down a German spy. Genres: Comedy, Drama, History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 39m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 The Lost Weekend 1945 Director: Billy Wilder. Cast: Ray Milland, Jane Wyman, Phillip Terry, Howard Da Silva, Doris Dowling, Frank Faylen, Mary Young, Anita Sharp-Bolster, Lillian Fontaine, Frank Orth, Lewis L. Russell. Overview: A writer battles his addiction to alcohol during a hot weekend in New York City Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 41m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 His Girl Friday 1940 Director: Howard Hawks. Cast: Cary Grant, Rosalind Russell, Ralph Bellamy, Gene Lockhart, Porter Hall, Cliff Edwards, Clarence Kolb, Roscoe Karns, Frank Jenks, Regis Toomey, Abner Biberman, Frank Orth, Helen Mack, John Qualen, Alma Kruger. Overview: Hildy Johnson has divorced Walter Burns and visits his office to tell him that she is engaged to another man and that they are going to get married the day after. Walter Burns can't let that happen and frames the other man, Bruce Baldwin, for a lot of stuff getting him into trouble all the time, while he tries to steer Hildy back into her old job as his employee (editor of his newspaper). Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 32m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 A Matter of Life and Death 1946 Neither Heaven nor Earth could keep them apart! Directors: Michael Powell, Emeric Pressburger. Cast: David Niven, Kim Hunter, Kathleen Byron, Richard Attenborough, Robert Coote, Bonar Colleano, Joan Maude, Marius Goring, Roger Livesey, Robert Atkins, Edwin Max, Betty Potter, Abraham Sofaer, Raymond Massey. Overview: When a young airman miraculously survives bailing out of his aeroplane without a parachute, he falls in love with an American radio operator. But the officials in the other world realise their mistake, and despatch an angel to collect him. Genres: Drama, Fantasy, Romance. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 44m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 The Lady Eve 1941 When you deal a fast shuffle... Love is in the cards. Director: Preston Sturges. Cast: Barbara Stanwyck, Henry Fonda, Charles Coburn, Eugene Pallette, William Demarest, Eric Blore, Melville Cooper, Martha O'Driscoll, Janet Beecher, Robert Greig, Dora Clement, Luis Alberni, Bess Flowers. Overview: Returning from a year up the Amazon studying snakes, the rich but unsophisticated Charles Pike meets con-artist Jean Harrington on a ship. They fall in love, but a misunderstanding causes them to split on bad terms. To get back at him, Jean disguises herself as an English lady, and comes back to tease and torment him. Genres: Comedy, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 37m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Shadow of a Doubt 1943 Directors: Alfred Hitchcock, William Tummel. Cast: Teresa Wright, Joseph Cotten, Macdonald Carey, Henry Travers, Patricia Collinge, Hume Cronyn, Wallace Ford, Edna May Wonacott, Charles Bates, Irving Bacon, Clarence Muse, Janet Shaw, Estelle Jewell. Overview: A bored young woman, a teen living in Santa Rosa, California, Charlotte "Charlie" Newton (Wright), is frustrated because nothing seems to be happening in her life and that of her family. Then, she receives wonderful news: her uncle (for whom she was named), Charlie Oakley (Cotten), her mother's brother, is arriving for a visit. But Uncle Charlie may not be the man he seems to be. Genres: Crime, Drama, Film Noir, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 Beauty and the Beast 1947 La belle et la bête Directors: René Clément, Jean Cocteau. Cast: Jean Marais, Josette Day, Marcel André, Mila Parély, Nane Germon, Michel Auclair, Raoul Marco. Overview: Adélaïde, Belle, Félicie and Ludovic are young adult siblings who once lived in grandeur until their father's merchant ships were lost at sea. The family is now near ruin, but Adélaïde and Félicie nonetheless still squander away the family money on themselves and keeping beautiful, whereas Belle slaves around the house, doting on her father. Ludovic detests his two spoiled sisters, but is protective of Belle, especially with his friend Avenant, a handsome scoundrel who wants to marry Belle. Crossing the forest one dark and stormy evening, the father gets lost and takes refuge in a fantastical castle. Upon leaving, he steals a blossom off a rose bush, which Belle requested. The castle's resident, an angry beast, sentences him to one of two options for the theft of the rose: his own death, or that of one of his daughters. As she feels she is the cause of her father's predicament (despite her sisters asking for far more lavish gifts). Genres: Drama, Fantasy, Foreign, Romance, Science Fiction. Country: France. Runtime: 1h 36m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp 1943 Directors: Emeric Pressburger, Michael Powell. Cast: Roger Livesey, Deborah Kerr, Anton Walbrook, Roland Culver, James McKechnie. Overview: Clive Candy V.C. has fought in the Boer War and the first world war. He still believes he can win any fight with honour and maintaining "gentlemanly conduct". It takes an old German friend of his to point out how much the rules have been changed when fighting the Nazis. We follow this delightful gentleman through his life and the pursuit of his (various) ideals. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Foreign, Romance. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 43m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 Great Expectations 1946 Director: David Lean. Cast: John Mills, Tony Wager, Valerie Hobson, Jean Simmons. Overview: A humble orphan suddenly becomes a gentleman with the help of an unknown benefactor. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 58m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Out of the Past 1947 A MAN - Trying to run away from his past... A WOMAN - Trying to escape her future... Director: Jacques Tourneur. Cast: Robert Mitchum, Jane Greer, Kirk Douglas, Rhonda Fleming, Richard Webb, Steve Brodie, Virginia Huston, Paul Valentine, Dickie Moore, Ken Niles. Overview: Jeff Bailey seems to be a mundane gas station owner in remote Bridgeport, CA. He is dating local girl Ann Miller and lives a quiet life. Town lawman Jim is in love with Ann and unsure about Jeff, who is secretive about his past. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Thriller, Film Noir. Countries: Mexico, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 37m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 Rope 1948 Director: Alfred Hitchcock. Cast: James Stewart, John Dall, Farley Granger, Constance Collier, Douglas Dick, Edith Evanson, Dick Hogan, Joan Chandler, Cedric Hardwicke. Overview: Two young men strangle their "inferior" classmate, hide his body in their apartment, and invite his friends and family to a dinner party as a means to challenge the "perfection" of their crime. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 20m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 The Philadelphia Story 1940 Broadway's howling year-run comedy hit of the snooty society beauty who slipped and fell - IN LOVE! Director: George Cukor. Cast: Cary Grant, Katharine Hepburn, James Stewart, Ruth Hussey, Roland Young, Henry Daniell, Mary Nash, John Halliday, Virginia Weidler, Rex Evans, Lionel Pape, John Howard. Overview: The Philadelphia Story is a comedy starring Cary Grant, Katherine Hepburn. Tracy Lord is idolised by everybody and must keep her sinister ex-husband, an alcoholic reporter, and her future clean-record husband happy. Genres: Comedy, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 The Shop Around the Corner 1940 Director: Ernst Lubitsch. Cast: Margaret Sullavan, James Stewart, Frank Morgan, Joseph Schildkraut, Sara Haden, Felix Bressart, William Tracy, Inez Courtney, Sarah Edwards, Edwin Maxwell, Charles Halton, Charles Smith. Overview: Two employees at a gift shop can barely stand one another, without realising that they are falling in love through the post as each other's anonymous pen pal. Genres: Comedy, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 39m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 The Little Foxes 1941 Director: William Wyler. Cast: Bette Davis, Herbert Marshall, Teresa Wright, Richard Carlson, Dan Duryea, Patricia Collinge, Charles Dingle, Carl Benton Reid, Jessica Grayson, John Marriott, Russell Hicks, Lucien Littlefield, Virginia Brissac, Terry Nibert, Henry 'Hot Shot' Thomas. Overview: The ruthless, moneyed Hubbard clan lives in, and poisons, their part of the deep South at the turn of the 20th century. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 55m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Arsenic and Old Lace 1944 She Passed Out On Cary! No Wonder . . . She's just discovered his favorite aunts have poisoned their 13th gentleman friend! Director: Frank Capra. Cast: Cary Grant, Priscilla Lane, Raymond Massey, Jack Carson, Edward Everett Horton, Peter Lorre, James Gleason, Josephine Hull, Jean Adair, John Alexander, Grant Mitchell, Edward McNamara, Garry Owen, John Ridgely, Vaughan Glaser. Overview: Mortimer Brewster is a newspaperman and author known for his diatribes against marriage. We watch him being married at city hall in the opening scene. Now all that is required is a quick trip home to tell Mortimer's two maiden aunts. While trying to break the news, he finds out his aunts' hobby; killing lonely old men and burying them in the cellar. It gets worse. Genres: Comedy, Crime. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Black Narcissus 1947 Directors: Michael Powell, Emeric Pressburger. Cast: Deborah Kerr, Flora Robson, Jean Simmons. Overview: Based on the novel of the same name by Rumer Godden. It is a psychological drama about the emotional tensions within a convent of nuns in an isolated Himalayan valley. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 To Have and Have Not 1944 TALK ABOUT T.N.T.! THIS is IT! Director: Howard Hawks. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Walter Brennan, Lauren Bacall, Dolores Moran, Hoagy Carmichael, Sheldon Leonard, Walter Szurovy, Marcel Dalio, Walter Sande, Dan Seymour, Aldo Nadi, Eugene Borden, Jack Chefe, Adrienne D'Ambricourt, Jean De Briac. Overview: A Martinique charter boat skipper gets mixed up with the underground French resistance operatives during WWII. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Romance, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 Letter from an Unknown Woman 1948 Director: Max Ophüls. Cast: Joan Fontaine, Louis Jourdan, Mady Christians, Marcel Journet, Art Smith, Carol Yorke, Howard Freeman, John Good, Leo B. Pessin, Erskine Sanford, Otto Waldis, Sonja Bryden. Overview: Letter from an Unknown Woman is a drama from Max Ophuls starring Joan Fontaine about an author who receives an anonymous letter. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 27m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 A Tree Grows in Brooklyn 1945 Director: Elia Kazan. Cast: Dorothy McGuire, Joan Blondell, James Dunn, Lloyd Nolan, James Gleason. Overview: Encouraged by her idealistic if luckless father, a bright and imaginative young woman comes of age in a Brooklyn tenement during the early 1900s. Genres: Drama, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 8m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 I Remember Mama 1948 Director: George Stevens. Cast: Irene Dunne, Barbara Bel Geddes, Oskar Homolka, Philip Dorn, Cedric Hardwicke, Edgar Bergen, Rudy Vallee. Overview: The ups and downs of a Norwegian immigrant family, circa 1910. Genres: Drama, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 14m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 The Magnificent Ambersons 1942 Directors: Orson Welles, Fred Fleck. Cast: Joseph Cotten, Dolores Costello, Anne Baxter, Tim Holt, Agnes Moorehead, Ray Collins, Erskine Sanford, Richard Bennett, Orson Welles. Overview: The Magnificent Ambersons is director Orson Welles’ second film which according to him is better than his first film Citizen Kane. The family saga tells the fate of the Amberson family. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 11m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 Late Spring 1949 Banshun Director: Yasujirô Ozu. Cast: Chishû Ryû, Setsuko Hara, Yumeji Tsukioka, Haruko Sugimura, Hohi Aoki, Jun Usami, Kuniko Miyake, Masao Mishima, Yoshiko Tsubouchi, Yôko Katsuragi, Toyo Takahashi, Jun Tanizaki, Ichirô Shimizu, Youko Benisawa, Manzaburo Umewaka. Overview: In the post-WWII Japan, the twenty-seven year-old Noriko Somiya lives a simple but happy life with her fifty-seven year-old widower father, the college professor Shukichi Somiya in the suburb of Tokyo. Noriko has recovered from a disease she had during the war, and her aunt Masa Taguchi and her friend Aya Kitagawa press her to get married. However, Noriko would rather stay single and taking care of her beloved father. When Masa finds a promising fiancé to Noriko, she tells that her father will remarry sooner, forcing the reluctant Noriko to take a decision. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Shoe-Shine 1946 'Sciuscià' (Ragazzi) Director: Vittorio De Sica. Cast: Franco Interlenghi, Rinaldo Smordoni, Annielo Mele. Overview: At a track near Rome, shoeshine boys are watching horses run. Two of the boys Pasquale, an orphan, and Giuseppe, his younger friend are riding. The pair have been saving to buy a horse of their own to ride... Country: Italy. Runtime: 1h 33m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 Key Largo 1948 A storm of fear and fury in the sizzling Florida Keys ! Director: John Huston. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Edward G. Robinson, Lauren Bacall, Lionel Barrymore, Claire Trevor, Thomas Gomez, Harry Lewis, John Rodney, Marc Lawrence, Dan Seymour, Monte Blue, William Haade. Overview: A hurricane swells outside, but it's nothing compared to the storm within the hotel at Key Largo. There, sadistic mobster Johnny Rocco (Robinson) holes up -- and holds at gunpoint hotel owner Nora Temple (Bacall), her invalid father-in-law (Barrymore) and ex-GI Frank McCloud (Bogart). Genres: Drama, Action, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 The Killers 1946 TENSE! TAUT! TERRIFIC! Told the untamed Hemingway way! Director: Robert Siodmak. Cast: Burt Lancaster, Ava Gardner, Edmond O'Brien, Albert Dekker, Sam Levene, Vince Barnett, Virginia Christine, Jack Lambert, Charles D. Brown, Donald MacBride, Charles McGraw, William Conrad, Jeff Corey. Overview: Hit men kill an unresisting victim, and investigator Reardon uncovers his past involvement with beautiful, deadly Kitty Collins. Genres: Crime, Drama, Film Noir. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 43m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 Mildred Pierce 1945 A mother's love leads to murder Director: Michael Curtiz. Cast: Joan Crawford, Jack Carson, Zachary Scott, Eve Arden, Ann Blyth, Bruce Bennett, Lee Patrick, Moroni Olsen, Veda Ann Borg, Jo Ann Marlowe. Overview: After her cheating husband leaves her, Mildred Pierce proves she can become independent and successful, but can't win the approval of her spoiled daughter. Genres: Drama, Thriller, Film Noir. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 51m. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
