#ThisURL#
http://corporate.britannica.com/publishing-partner-program
#SubURL#
http://corporate.britannica.com/products/schools/
http://corporate.britannica.com/news/press-kits/
http://info.eb.com/products/e-books/
http://corporate.britannica.com/hudsonalpha-institute-for-biotechnology/
http://corporate.britannica.com/regina-opera-company/
http://corporate.britannica.com/the-nexus-at-britannica/
http://corporate.britannica.com/products/universities/
http://corporate.britannica.com/news/press/
http://corporate.britannica.com/great-lakes-colleges-association/
mailto:tpappas@eb.com
http://corporate.britannica.com/great-museums-television/
http://corporate.britannica.com/science-in-seconds/
http://www.britannica.co.uk/
http://www.facebook.com/britannica
http://www.britannica.es/
http://www.youtube.com/britannica
http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/id447919187?mt=8
http://www.britannica.co.jp/
http://www.china.eb.com
http://info.eb.com/
http://www.twitter.com/britannica
http://merriamwebster.com/
https://safe.britannica.com/customer/mailinglist/
http://info.eb.com/products/pathways-science/
http://shop.eb.com/
http://advocacy.britannica.com/blog/advocacy
http://www.britannica.com/feeds
http://www.britannica.com.au/
http://info.eb.com/products/britannica-school/
http://www.britannica.com
http://www.britannica.com/widgets
http://www.britannicaindia.com/
http://info.eb.com/products/britannica-academic-edition/
http://www.britannica.com.br/
#Title#
Publishing Partner Program | Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Corporate Site
#Content#
Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home About Us Britannica Today Brands and Divisions Executive Team Contributors Board of Directors Products At Home Schools Libraries Colleges & Universities Business & Government For Journalists Publishing Partner Program News Britannica in the News Press Releases Press Kits Want More? Contact Us Publishing Partner Program A Global Audience . . . A Community of Experts    Have expert knowledge you’d like to share with the world?   A new book published?   Photographs and videos for which you’d like a wider, global audience?   Consider joining Britannica’s Publishing Partner Program. As part of this program, you will gain a large, global audience for your work and expertise and join Britannica’s historic roster of contributors. Since 1768, Encyclopædia Britannica has worked with the world’s premier institutions, scholars, and experts – from public servants, social leaders, and heads of state to professional athletes, pioneering artists, scholars and independent writers, graduate students, as well as niche craftsmen and hobbyists and specialists of all kinds.  All are welcome to contribute in their fields of expertise. Likewise, institutions with special assets such as videos, photographs, and primary documents, and which are looking for ways to expand their outreach, are encouraged to contribute as well.  All articles and assets shared through this partnership will remain open to and freely accessible by the public to assure maximum visibility. The result for all contributors is publication with Britannica, whose websites reach millions of readers. Institutions receive greater brand exposure, and all contributors receive an author profile page at Britannica.com that is freely accessible to the public. These profile pages include the contributors’ biography and photo as well as links to their signed Britannica article(s) and to their personal and professional websites; the covers of their published books can also be displayed and linked to amazon.com to assist in sales. For the individuals and institutions already participating in this program, see below. For more information on this program and how to join this alliance, contact Theodore Pappas at Encyclopædia Britannica. PARTNERS The Society for Military History The Society for Military History (SMH) traces its lineage to 1933, when it was founded as the American Military Foundation.  Renamed in 1939 as the American Military Institute, it assumed its present designation in 1990.  The SMH publishes the ...  Read more    University of Melbourne Established in 1853, the University of Melbourne is a public-spirited institution that makes distinctive contributions to society in research, learning and teaching and engagement.  According to Times Higher Education World University Rankings ...  Read more    The Canadian Encyclopedia The Canadian Encyclopedia is a free, bilingual online resource that is the only established national encyclopedia in the world. It is published and operated by Historica Canada, the largest independent organization devoted to enhancing awareness ...  Read more    American Chemical Society With more than 158,000 members, the American Chemical Society (ACS) is the world’s largest scientific society and one of the world’s leading sources of authoritative scientific information. A nonprofit organization chartered by the U.S. ...  Read more    OpenLearn, Open University OpenLearn is The Open University’s home of free learning. Based in the U.K., the Open University and the OpenLearn team have been releasing free, high quality learning materials online since 1999, both at OpenLearn and through other channels ...  Read more    Folger Shakespeare Library The Folger Shakespeare Library is home to the world’s largest collection of materials relating to Shakespeare and his works and to major collections of rare Renaissance books, manuscripts, and works of art.  Located on Capitol Hill in ...  Read more    University of California, Berkeley The University of California, Berkeley is the No. 1 public university and one of the most iconic teaching and research institutions in the world. From a group of academic pioneers to the leading innovators of today, Berkeley is a place … ...  Read more    Northwestern University Northwestern University uniquely combines the assets of many different types of academic institutions — the power of a major research university, the creative energy of arts and music conservatories, the intimacy of a liberal arts college, ...  Read more    Art Institute of Chicago The Art Institute of Chicago collects, preserves, and interprets works of art of the highest quality, representing the world’s diverse artistic traditions, for the inspiration and education of the public and in accordance with its profession’s ...  Read more    Clío TV Clío TV is a Mexico City-based production house dedicated to historical documentaries.  It covers the major events experienced by Mexico throughout its history and presents them to the general public. For over 17 years and under the constant ...  Read more    Chicago Architecture Foundation The Chicago Architecture Foundation  (CAF) inspires people to discover why design matters. CAF is the leading organization devoted to celebrating and promoting Chicago as a center of architectural innovation. As Chicago’s forum for the ...  Read more    The Nexus (Text Edition) The Nexus is a compilation of the independent writers – from freelance journalists and independent scholars to hobbyists, travelers, and medical professionals — who have joined Britannica’s Publishing Partner Program.   Recent ...  Read more    The Newberry Based in Chicago and serving the public since 1887, the Newberry is an independent research library with collections spanning six centuries. The collections feature a diverse array of items such as illuminated medieval manuscripts, rare early ...  Read more    University College Cork, Ireland University College Cork (UCC), Ireland, is ranked in the top two percent of universities globally and is Ireland’s first five-star university.  It offers first-class learning and teaching facilities and conducts world-class research that keeps ...  Read more    School of the Art Institute of Chicago The School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC) is one of the most historically significant accredited independent schools of art and design in the United States. Its accolades are many, including recognition by Columbia University’s National ...  Read more    The Nexus (Video Edition) Listed below are some of the varied videos that have been contributed through Britannica’s Publishing Partner Program.   See here for more information on this program and how to contribute your work, or contact Theodore Pappas at ...  Read more    Yale Law School’s Lillian Goldman Law Library The Lillian Goldman Law Library at Yale Law School is one of the largest and most innovative law libraries in the world. The print collection of more than 1 million volumes includes primary and secondary legal materials from the United … ...  Read more    The Nexus (Photo Edition)   Independent as well as institutional photographers have contributed the following work to Encyclopaedia Britannica.  All of their contributions will be live soon. See here for more information on Britannica’s Publishing Partner Program ...  Read more    MinutePhysics, MinuteEarth In 2011 Henry Reich created MinutePhysics to share short educational videos about cool physics and other sweet science through YouTube and other online platforms, now including Britannica. With his brother Alex and father Peter he launched a ...  Read more    Project Color: History in a New Light “Project Color, a Britannica initiative, seeks to look at history in a new light through the masterful skills of assorted artists and photo colorists from around the world.  Whether the colorization makes a formerly monochrome image ...  Read more    HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology is a genomic science and applications nonprofit organization.  It is both a high-volume genomic data producer serving thousands of academic, clinical, and commercial clients’ needs and a global scientific ...  Read more    Fun Travel TV, Australia Fun Travel TV offers an enjoyable way to explore Australia and the South Pacific. Through online travel videos, Fun Travel TV takes you on a journey to various destinations and shows the experiences that can be enjoyed above and below the water. ...  Read more    Antarctic Institute of Canada The Antarctic Institute of Canada is a registered Canadian charity that is devoted to scholarly research and academic writing.  Headquartered in Edmonton, the institute was originally founded to lobby the federal government of Canada to engage ...  Read more    Project Time-Lapse: Explore the World in Minutes “Project Time-Lapse,” a Britannica initiative, highlights the creative art form of time-lapse photography and the global companies and organizations and globe-trotting artists who have mastered this medium.  Their work is both ...  Read more    Cinema Retro Cinema Retro is a magazine dedicated to films of the 1960s and 70s. Its editor-in-chief, Lee Pfeiffer, is the author and co-author of numerous books on film and is regarded as one of the foremost experts on James Bond. His book The … Read more    BIO (Biographers International Organization) Founded in 2010, BIO (Biographers International Organization is the only worldwide organization devoted to all aspects of the art and craft of biography. With members who include Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award winners, BIO has become a ...  Read more    University of Oklahoma Press During its more than 85 years of continuous operation, the University of Oklahoma Press has gained international recognition as an outstanding publisher of scholarly literature. It was the first university press established in the Southwest, and ...  Read more    Music The following experts in music, and their affiliated institutions, have contributed to Britannica in their fields of expertise; all of their contributions will be live soon.       The Star Spangled Music Foundation nurtures the deeper ...  Read more    The Holocaust Project The Holocaust Project is Britannica’s effort to make available to the public its extensive coverage of one of history’s darkest chapters, the Holocaust. Britannica is offering this content to partnering institutions for dissemination to their ...  Read more    Wonderland “Wonderland” is the name of the forthcoming website of American pop culture specialist Michael Barson (Ph.D., American Culture), author of more than a dozen books, including Red Scared!, Agonizing Love, Teenage Confidential, The ...  Read more    Superheroes The Superhero Book, published by Visible Ink Press in 2012, was the first comprehensive profile of superheroes across all media, following their path from comic book stardom to radio, television, movies, and novels.  We’re pleased that ...  Read more    American History Project: University of Groningen In November 1994 a group of students under the supervision of Dr. George M. Welling of the Faculty of Arts at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands created a website (American History: From Revolution to Reconstruction and ...  Read more    Hushhush Video Hushhushvideo specializes in the creation of graphic novel-inspired nonfiction filmmaking and photography.  Based in London, it explores world cultures, politics, and economics and is affiliated with Queuepolitely,  an independent non-partisan ...  Read more    Modernist Cuisine The Cooking Lab is the publisher of Modernist Cuisine: The Art and Science of Cooking (2011), Modernist Cuisine at Home (2012), and The Photography of Modernist Cuisine (2013). Its interdisciplinary team in Bellevue, Washington, includes ...  Read more    Great Lakes Colleges Association The mission of the Great Lakes Colleges Association (GLCA) is to take actions that will help strengthen and preserve its colleges. A leading force on behalf of education in the tradition of the liberal arts and sciences, GLCA works to … ...  Read more    Eat Your World Eat Your World is an original guide to regional foods and drinks around the globe. Launched in December 2011, the food-travel website identifies and contextualizes a destination’s traditional, indigenous, and locavore (locally sourced) foods and ...  Read more    Great Museums Television Great Museums Television, producer of the award-winning documentary series Great Museums, opens the doors of the museum world to millions of viewers through public television and new media.  Stories of history and progress fill us with pride or ...  Read more    Checkerboard Film Foundation Checkerboard Film Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit institution established in 1979 to document, through the medium of film and video, artists who are making unique and important contributions to the American arts. Checkerboard’s ...  Read more    Regina Opera Company Regina Opera Company began in 1970 as a small group of dedicated volunteers who gave opera recitals, with piano accompaniment, in a tiny church auditorium in Borough Park, Brooklyn. Over the years it grew to be a professional-level opera ...  Read more    Science In Seconds Science in Seconds–created in 2009 and by three science students from the University of Alberta (Rheanna Sand, Ph.D.;Torah Kachur, Ph.D.; and Brittany Trogen, M.Sc.)—was founded on a simple premise: know everything. Or at least, know as ...  Read more      Our Sites Britannica Online Premium Britannica School Britannica Academic Edition Merriam-Webster Pathways: Science Britannica eBooks School & Library Products Britannica Store (Consumers) Britannica Store (Institutions) Advocacy for Animals Mobile iPhone App iPad App Britannica Kids Apps Stay Connected Facebook Twitter Youtube Newsletters RSS Widgets International Australia Brazil China India Japan Latin America United Kingdom Corporate Privacy Policy Terms of Use © 2014 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. All Rights Reserved.     EB®
