#ThisURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Legal.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Legal/Legal_Support_Services/Legal_Assistant_or_Paralegal.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/videos/Law_Professions_Video_Popular_Fields_of_Law_to_Practice.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/articles/Constitutional_Law_Professions_Career_and_Education_Overview.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=USW
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Legal
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Legal Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Fire Safety and Protection Legal Research and Professional Studies Legal Support Services Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Subject Categories  /  Legal Legal Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Corrections Admin, Corrections, Probation, and Parole, Criminal Justice and Safety Studies... View All Fire Safety and Protection Fire Safety and Protection Fire Fighting, Fire Services Admin... View All Legal Research and Professional Studies Legal Research and Professional Studies Advanced Legal Research, Comparative Law, Energy and Environmental Law... View All Legal Support Services Legal Support Services Court Reporting, Legal Administrative Assistant or Secretary, Legal Assistant or Paralegal... View All The legal field includes a variety of professional and support careers. However, all of these careers are focused on lawyers, the tasks they perform and various issues related to both preventing and participating in litigation. Read on to learn more. Inside the Legal Profession Individuals who are interested in a legal career who aren't planning to become lawyers may consider work as legal assistants or paralegals. These individuals help lawyers organize legal documents, analyze cases and prepare for trial. Lawyers are responsible for the actual representation of clients, which involves numerous in-depth tasks, and they must be licensed. At Study.com, you can explore a variety of career options within the legal profession and different educational options depending on the occupational path you choose. Education Information Paralegals may be trained on the job, but more commonly they can complete undergraduate programs in paralegal studies at the certificate, associate and bachelor's levels. Master's programs may also exist as continuing education options for professionals that need legal training. To practice as a legal professional, students need to earn an undergraduate degree and a Juris Doctor (J.D.). Specialized practice might require additional training or a dual degree. For example, students looking to enter the legal profession as environmental lawyers might earn a Master of Laws (LL.M.) in Environmental Law after they complete a J.D. program. Students can also earn a dual degree in law school, such as the J.D./Master of Business Administration. After completing a J.D. program at a law school recognized by the American Bar Association (ABA), students will need to take the bar exam in their state before practicing law. You'll generally need to earn your legal degree on-campus. With the exception of California law schools, the ABA doesn't recognize J.D. programs unless they provide in-person training, access to a law library and legal research experience. You can also continue your legal studies by earning an LL.M. or doctorate. Check out the links below to learn more about common education options for aspiring legal professionals. Paralegal Associate Degree Legal Counsel Training Options Master of Laws in Health Law Major in Legal Studies Doctor of Health Law Distance Learning Although distance education options may not be available to prepare individuals to become lawyers, students can still find online programs that prepare them for work in the legal field. The following articles explain these relevant distance education options further. Online Paralegal Studies Programs Online Legal Secretary Diploma Online Legal Office Management Bachelor's Degree Online Legal Studies Master's Degree Career Options Lawyers usually specialize in one or more areas of practice. The Study.com pages listed below can help you learn about many of the specializations pursued by legal professionals, the type of work involved and what you might expect in the workforce. Government Attorney Constitutional Law Fields Legal Career Options Executive Legal Secretary Legal Careers in Taxation, Trade and Business Salary Information and Employment Outlook The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reported that paralegals earned a median annual salary of $47,570 in 2013, while lawyers received a median annual salary of $114,300 (www.bls.gov). Jobs for lawyers were expected to increase 10% from 2012-2022, which is on par with the national average of 11% for all job sectors, but demand could be tempered by clients' increased reliance on paralegals to reduce costs. Employment opportunities for paralegals were expected to rise 17% between 2012 and 2022, which is faster than average. Read more Legal Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Legal Receptionist Training Program Information A legal receptionist can find career options in a government agency, state office, brokerage firm or a law office. To prepare for this... Legal Office Support Certificate Program Information Legal office support specialists, also known as legal secretaries, perform administrative and secretarial tasks for lawyers and their... Legal Nurse Certification and Training Program Information A Legal Nurse Consultant certification is generally an optional credential for licensed nurses who wish to work in the legal field.... Legal Certifications Legal Secretary Training Legal Secretary Duties Legal Secretary Education Legal Studies Major Legal Receptionist: Job Description, Duties and Salary Careers Working with Legal Contracts: Job Options and Requirements Top Master's Degree Programs in Public Administration - Chicago, IL Students interested in studying public administration at the master's degree level in Chicago have five schools to choose from. Read about... How to Become a Certified ESL Teacher Research the requirements to become a certified ESL teacher. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the step-by-step process... Become a Crime Scene Cleaner: Step-by-Step Career Guide Online Radiology Continuing Education Information Online Life Coach Training and Certification Programs International Marketing Major: Information and Requirements Behavioral Psychology Degree Program Summaries Aviation Masters Degree Students who are interested in earning a master's degree in aviation have a few options. Most programs are geared toward aviation... All About the GED Texas Adults in Texas who haven't completed high school but would like to increase their employability or pursue a college education could take... MBA in Fraud Management Degree Program Summary Online Advertising Master Degree Program Civil Engineering Certification Bachelors Degrees in Organizational Communications Program Info Associate of Specialized Business ASB Paralegal Specialist Degree Overview Legal Related Videos Law Professions Video: Popular Fields of Law to Practice Court Reporter and Stenographer Video: Career Options and Educational Requirements Lawyer Career Overview Video Paralegal Studies Career Video: Becoming a Paralegal Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Master Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice MSM in Emergency Management MS in Criminal Justice: Advanced Counterterrorism & Homeland Security concentration MS in Criminal Justice: Public Safety Administration concentration MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Criminal Justice BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 4Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - General-Advanced PhD in Criminal Justice - General Ph.D. in Social Work-Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - Justice Administration-Advanced Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Criminal Justice (Course-based) Master MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy MS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Policy Analysis MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Emergency Management MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration - Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Project Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor BS in Legal Studies BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety Bachelor of Science - Criminal Justice: Supervision and Management Concentration BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Associate AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal AS in Criminal Justice Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 6Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Career Diploma: Legal Transcriptionist Certificate - Advanced Paralegal Applications Career Diploma: Legal Secretary Certificate - Business Security Certificate - Real Estate, Wills and Estates for Paralegals Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 7Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate DBA in Criminal Justice PhD in Business Administration - Criminal Justice DBA in Homeland Security Leadership & Policy PhD in Business Administration - Homeland Security Leadership & Policy Master Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Criminal Justice MBA in Criminal Justice MBA in Homeland Security Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 8Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS-Criminal Justice MS/Criminal Justice - Forensic Science MS/Criminal Justice - Law Enforcement and Corrections Administration MS/Criminal Justice - Homeland Security MS/Criminal Justice - Cybercrime and Technology Bachelor BA in Social and Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BA in Social and Criminal Justice - Corrections Management BA in Social and Criminal Justice BA in Law Enforcement Administration BA in Homeland Security and Emergency Management BA/Social and Criminal Justice - Criminal Investigations Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 9University of the Southwest School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA - Law Enforcement & Corrections Get Started with University of the Southwest What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School 10Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master in Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Administration Bachelor BS in Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Administration Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Fire Safety and Protection Legal Research and Professional Studies Legal Support Services What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 University of the Rockies Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MSM in Emergency Management MS in Criminal Justice: Advanced Counterterrorism & Homeland Security concentration MS in Criminal Justice: Public Safety Administration concentration MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 Baker College Online BS in Criminal Justice BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 4 Walden University DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - General-Advanced PhD in Criminal Justice - General Ph.D. in Social Work-Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - Justice Administration-Advanced Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Criminal Justice (Course-based) MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy MS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Policy Analysis MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Emergency Management MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5 Herzing University Master of Business Administration - Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Project Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership BS in Legal Studies BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety Bachelor of Science - Criminal Justice: Supervision and Management Concentration BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal AS in Criminal Justice View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 6 Penn Foster Career School Career Diploma: Legal Transcriptionist Certificate - Advanced Paralegal Applications Career Diploma: Legal Secretary Certificate - Business Security Certificate - Real Estate, Wills and Estates for Paralegals View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 7 Northcentral University DBA in Criminal Justice PhD in Business Administration - Criminal Justice DBA in Homeland Security Leadership & Policy PhD in Business Administration - Homeland Security Leadership & Policy Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Criminal Justice MBA in Criminal Justice MBA in Homeland Security View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 8 Ashford University MS-Criminal Justice MS/Criminal Justice - Forensic Science MS/Criminal Justice - Law Enforcement and Corrections Administration MS/Criminal Justice - Homeland Security MS/Criminal Justice - Cybercrime and Technology BA in Social and Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BA in Social and Criminal Justice - Corrections Management BA in Social and Criminal Justice BA in Law Enforcement Administration BA in Homeland Security and Emergency Management BA/Social and Criminal Justice - Criminal Investigations View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 9 University of the Southwest MBA - Law Enforcement & Corrections What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School 10 Colorado State University Global Master in Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Administration BS in Criminal Justice and Law Enforcement Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
