#ThisURL#
http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy
#SubURL#
http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy
http://www.britannica.com/contributor/Clara-M-Lovett/4195
http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy/Plant-life#toc26969
http://www.britannica.com/quiz/cervantes
http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy/Agriculture-forestry-and-fishing#toc26986
http://www.britannica.com/event/Renaissance
http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy/Mountain-ranges
http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy/Government-and-society
http://www.britannica.com/place/Sardinia-island-Italy
http://www.britannica.com/place/Holy-Roman-Empire
https://safe1.britannica.com/registrations2/signup.do?partnerCode=EBOK_300x50_A
http://info.eb.com
http://corporate.britannica.com/termsofuse.html
https://safe1.britannica.com/registrations2/signup.do?partnerCode=EBOPPGSUB_LP_MDL_D
http://corporate.britannica.com/privacy.html
http://corporate.britannica.com/publishing-partner-program
http://corporate.britannica.com/contact/consumer/
http://corporate.britannica.com
#Title#
Italy | history - geography | Britannica.com
#Content#
School and Library Subscribers JOIN LOGIN Activate Your Free Trial! stories quizzes galleries lists Italy Article Web sites Bibliography Year in Review Contributors Written by: Clara M. Lovett SHARE Read View All Media (84) View History Edit Feedback Alternative titles: Italia; Italian Republic; Repubblica Italiana Table of Contents Introduction Land Relief Drainage Soils Climate Plant life Animal life The people Ethnic groups Languages Religion Traditional regions Settlement patterns Demographic trends Economy An overview Agriculture, forestry, and fishing Resources and power Manufacturing Finance Trade Services and tourism Labour and taxation Transportation and telecommunications Government and society Constitutional framework Regional and local government Justice Political process Security Health and welfare Housing Education Cultural life Cultural milieu Daily life and social customs The arts Cultural institutions Sports and recreation Media and publishing History Italy in the early Middle Ages Italy, 962–1300 Italy in the 14th and 15th centuries Early modern Italy (16th to 18th centuries) Revolution, restoration, and unification Italy from 1870 to 1945 Italy since 1945 Italy, country of south-central Europe, occupying a peninsula that juts deep into the Mediterranean Sea. Italy comprises some of the most varied and scenic landscapes on Earth and is often described as a country shaped like a boot. At its broad top stand the Alps, which are among the world’s most rugged mountains. Italy’s highest points are along Monte Rosa, which peaks in Switzerland, and along Mont Blanc, which peaks in France. The western Alps overlook a landscape of Alpine lakes and glacier-carved valleys that stretch down to the Po River and the Piedmont. Tuscany, to the south of the cisalpine region, is perhaps the country’s best-known region. From the central Alps, running down the length of the country, radiates the tall Apennine Range, which widens near Rome to cover nearly the entire width of the Italian peninsula. South of Rome the Apennines narrow and are flanked by two wide coastal plains, one facing the Tyrrhenian Sea and the other the Adriatic Sea. Much of the lower Apennine chain is near-wilderness, hosting a wide range of species rarely seen elsewhere in western Europe, such as wild boars, wolves, asps, and bears. The southern Apennines are also tectonically unstable, with several active volcanoes, including Vesuvius, which from time to time belches ash and steam into the air above Naples and its island-strewn bay. At the bottom of the country, in the Mediterranean Sea, lie the islands of Sicily and Sardinia. Italy’s political geography has been conditioned by this rugged landscape. With few direct roads between them, and with passage from one point to another traditionally difficult, Italy’s towns and cities have a history of self-sufficiency, independence, and mutual mistrust. Visitors today remark on how unlike one town is from the next, on the marked differences in cuisine and dialect, and on the many subtle divergences that make Italy seem less a single nation than a collection of culturally related points in an uncommonly pleasing setting. Across a span of more than 3,000 years, Italian history has been marked by episodes of temporary unification and long separation, of intercommunal strife and failed empires. At peace for more than half a century now, Italy’s 58 million inhabitants enjoy a high standard of living and a highly developed culture. Though its archaeological record stretches back tens of thousands of years, Italian history begins with the Etruscans, an ancient civilization that rose between the Arno and Tiber rivers. The Etruscans were supplanted in the 3rd century bce by the Romans, who soon became the chief power in the Mediterranean world and whose empire stretched from India to Scotland by the 2nd century ce. That empire was rarely secure, not only because of the unwillingness of conquered peoples to stay conquered but also because of power struggles between competing Roman political factions, military leaders, families, ethnic groups, and religions. The Roman Empire fell in the 5th century ce after a succession of barbarian invasions through which Huns, Lombards, Ostrogoths, and Franks—mostly previous subjects of Rome—seized portions of Italy. Rule devolved to the level of the city-state, although the Normans succeeded in establishing a modest empire in southern Italy and Sicily in the 11th century. Many of those city-states flourished during the Renaissance era, a time marked by significant intellectual, artistic, and technological advances but also by savage warfare between states loyal to the pope and those loyal to the Holy Roman Empire. Italian unification came in the 19th century, when a liberal revolution installed Victor Emmanuel II as king. In World War I, Italy fought on the side of the Allies, but, under the rule of the fascist leader Benito Mussolini, it waged war against the Allied powers in World War II. From the end of World War II to the early 1990s, Italy had a multiparty system dominated by two large parties: the Christian Democratic Party (Partito della Democrazia Cristiana; DC) and the Italian Communist Party (Partito Comunista Italiano; PCI). In the early 1990s the Italian party system underwent a radical transformation, and the political centre collapsed, leaving a right-left polarization of the party spectrum that threw the north-south divide into sharper contrast and gave rise to such political leaders as media magnate Silvio Berlusconi. The whole country is relatively prosperous, certainly as compared with the early years of the 20th century, when the economy was predominantly agricultural. Much of that prosperity has to do with tourism, for in good years nearly as many visitors as citizens can be found in the country. Italy is part of the European Union and the Council of Europe, and, with its strategic geographic position on the southern flank of Europe, it has played a fairly important role in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Roman ForumPixland/ThinkstockThe capital is Rome, one of the oldest of the world’s great cities and a favourite of visitors, who go there to see its great monuments and works of art as well as to enjoy the city’s famed dolce vita, or "sweet life." Other major cities include the industrial and fashion centre of Milan; Genoa, a handsome port on the Ligurian Gulf; the sprawling southern metropolis of Naples; and Venice, one of the world’s oldest tourist destinations. Surrounded by Rome is an independent state, Vatican City, which is the seat of the Roman Catholic Church and the spiritual home of Italy’s overwhelmingly Catholic population. Each of those cities, and countless smaller cities and towns, has retained its differences against the leveling effect of the mass media and standardized education. Thus, many Italians, particularly older ones, are inclined to think of themselves as belonging to families, then neighbourhoods, then towns or cities, then regions, and then, last, as members of a nation. The intellectual and moral faculties of humankind have found a welcome home in Italy, one of the world’s most important centres of religion, visual arts, literature, music, philosophy, culinary arts, and sciences. Michelangelo Buonarroti, the painter and sculptor, believed that his work was to free an already existing image; Giuseppe Verdi heard the voices of the ancients and of angels in music that came to him in his dreams; Dante Alighieri forged a new language with his incomparable poems of heaven, hell, and the world between. Those and many other Italian artists, writers, designers, musicians, chefs, actors, and filmmakers have brought extraordinary gifts to the world. This article treats the physical and human geography and history of Italy. For discussion of Classical history, see the articles ancient Italic people and ancient Rome. Land To the north the Alps separate Italy from France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia. Elsewhere Italy is surrounded by the Mediterranean Sea, in particular by the Adriatic Sea to the northeast, the Ionian Sea to the southeast, the Tyrrhenian Sea to the southwest, and the Ligurian Sea to the northwest. Areas of plain, which are practically limited to the great northern triangle of the Po valley, cover only about one-fifth of the total area of the country; the remainder is roughly evenly divided between hilly and mountainous land, providing variations to the generally temperate climate. Relief Mountain ranges higher than 2,300 ft (702 m) occupy more than one-third of Italy. There are two mountain systems: the scenic Alps, parts of which lie within the neighbouring countries of France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia; and the Apennines, which form the spine of the entire peninsula and of the island of Sicily. A third mountain system exists on the two large islands to the west, Italian Sardinia and French Corsica. Quick Facts Images Videos Audio quizzes Lists 1Includes 7 nonelective seats (5 presidential appointees and 2 former presidents serving ex officio). 2In addition, German is locally official in the region of Trentino–Alto Adige, and French is locally official in the region of Valle d’Aosta. Official name Repubblica Italiana (Italian Republic) Form of government republic with two legislative houses (Senate [3221]; Chamber of Deputies [630]) Head of state President: Sergio Mattarella Head of government Prime Minister: Matteo Renzi Capital Rome Official language Italian2 Official religion none Monetary unit euro (€) Population (2014 est.) 59,993,000 Expand Total area (sq mi) 116,346 Total area (sq km) 301,336 Urban-rural population Urban: (2011) 68.4% Rural: (2011) 31.6% Life expectancy at birth Male: (2011) 79.4 years Female: (2011) 84.5 years Literacy: percentage of population age 15 and over literate Male: (2007) 99.1% Female: (2007) 98.6% GNI per capita (U.S.$) (2013) 34,400 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … 35 Next Page Comments Share SHARE Email Print Cite Last Updated 3-9-2016 You may also be interested in... Europe Lazio Sicily Tuscany Apennine Range Rome Campania Lombardy Puglia Piedmont Emilia-Romagna Veneto Keep exploring Exploring Italy and France: Fact or Fiction? The Country Quiz Countries of the World 7 Drugs that Changed the World Italy Table of Contents What made you want to look up Italy? To From Subject Comments (Please limit to 900 characters) Cancel Britannica Stories In The News / Health & Medicine Zika Proven to Cause Microcephaly Demystified / Geography Is "Holland" the Same Place as "the Netherlands"? Spotlight / History The Unsinkable Titanic See All Stories BRITANNICA QUIZZES Canines vs. Felines Africa’s Physical Features Cervantes See More Quizzes About Us About Our Ads Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use ©2016 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Please select the sections you want to print Select All Table of contents Introduction Land The people Economy Government and society Cultural life History Cancel Citations MLA style: "Italy". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2016 <http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy>. APA style: Italy. (2016). In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy Harvard style: Italy. 2016. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 14 April, 2016, from http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy Chicago Manual of Style: Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v. "Italy", accessed April 14, 2016, http://www.britannica.com/place/Italy. While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Update Link Click anywhere inside the article to add text or insert superscripts, subscripts, and special characters. You can also highlight a section and use the tools in this bar to modify existing content: Add links to related Britannica articles! You can double-click any word or highlight a word or phrase in the text below and then select an article from the search box. Or, simply highlight a word or phrase in the article, then enter the article name or term you'd like to link to in the search box below, and select from the list of results. Note: we do not allow links to external resources in editor. Please click the Web sites link for this article to add citations for external Web sites. Editing Tools: Table of Contents Tips for Editing Leave Edit Mode Submit We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind: Encyclopaedia Britannica articles are written in a neutral, objective tone for a general audience. You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered. Any text you add should be original, not copied from other sources. At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are best.) Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions. MEDIA FOR: Italy Citation MLA APA Harvard Chicago Email To: From: Comment: You have successfully emailed this. Error when sending the email. Try again later. Or click Continue to submit anonymously: Continue
