#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Study_Crime_Investigation_Online_Overview_of_Learning_Options.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/criminal_investigation_degrees_in_fl.html
http://study.com/investigation_training.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/program/Colorado_Technical_University_MS_in_Criminal_Justice.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/articles/55_Colleges_Under_Investigation_for_Unethical_Student_Loan_Practices.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Study Crime Investigation Online: Overview of Learning Options
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Legal  /  Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections  /  Criminal Science Legal Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Corrections Admin Corrections, Probation, and Parole Criminal Justice and Safety Studies Forensic Science Juvenile Corrections Law Enforcement Administration Police Science and Law Enforcement Securities Services Mgmt Security and Theft Prevention Services Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Articles about Online Education  /  Legal  /  Study Crime Investigation Online:... Study Crime Investigation Online: Overview of Learning Options Find out about online crime investigation courses and in which degree programs they're most commonly offered. Get course descriptions, program info and online requirements to make an informed decision. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information Crime scene investigators handle the complex tasks of collecting and securing physical evidence. Rises in financial crime, including identity theft and consumer fraud, have expanded the range of criminal justice career opportunities. Students interested in pursuing a college education in crime investigation have a number of options, including online certificates and associates, bachelor's and master's degree programs. These distance learning programs, depending on degree level, are available at community colleges, four-year universities and private distance learning colleges. In addition to for-credit programs, some schools offer non-college credit crime investigation certificates through their continuing education departments. Online undergraduate programs provide general education along with foundational knowledge and skills in crime scene investigations, which could help them prepare for entry-level positions in government agencies, laboratories and insurance companies, among others. Graduate programs, which are usually designed to advance professionals' skills, require applicants to have a bachelor's degree and often relevant work experience. Online Availability Online-only and hybrid programs are available Degrees with Crime Investigation Courses Criminal justice or economic crime investigation Degree Levels Available Certificates, associates, bachelor's and master's degrees In-Person Requirements Residencies Program Information and Requirements Online students attend class by accessing a virtual classroom to interact with their facilitators and submit coursework. Most online programs require minimum technological proficiencies, including basic computer skills. Students should make sure their computers are capable of running virtual crime simulations, as these are a part of some online programs. Many programs can be completed totally online, but some schools require short campus-based residencies. This tends to be more common at the graduate degree level. Certificate in Criminal Justice Students who wish to pursue law enforcement or corrections careers may benefit from an online criminal justice certificate program, which includes criminal justice and crime scene investigation fundamentals. Course Topics Certificate programs typically focus on basic criminology principles, supplemented by coursework focusing on correctional procedures. Programs may include the following coursework: Introduction to Criminal Justice Criminology Substantive Criminal Justice Procedural Criminal Justice Correctional Process Certificate in Economic Crime Investigation Escalating numbers of low-level crimes involving monetary and information resources has increased the need for criminal investigators. Certificate programs train students to use criminal justice techniques and procedures to identify financial crimes, which may qualify them to work as internal financial crime investigators or seek employment with a law enforcement agency. Course Topics Like criminal justice programs, an economic crime course of study establishes a foundation in criminal justice concepts. This knowledgebase is supported with information technology, finance and accounting coursework, including: Forensic Accounting Fraud Auditing Information Security Fraud Prevention and Detection Criminal Justice Associate of Applied Science Degree This degree program has the advantage of preparing the student for a criminal justice career, as well as providing the academic foundation necessary for a more advanced course of study. Students have the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills necessary to be a crime scene investigator. Course Topics Associate-level students receive a combination of general education classes, including math, humanities and English composition, supplemented with the following types of core classes: Law Enforcement Operations Judicial Function Constitutional Law Criminology Bachelor of Science in Economic Crime Investigation The knowledge and practical skills obtained from this course of study qualify students to work in law enforcement cybercrimes divisions as well as organizational in-house investigators. This program enables students to understand the role that criminal investigative techniques play in the investigation of criminal acts. Course Topics Mandatory coursework includes a foundation in mathematics, computer science and economics, supported by a core program, which may include: Jurisprudence of the Criminal Law Law of Economic Crime Introduction to Criminal Justice Forensic Accounting Criminal Justice Research Methods Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Students who successfully complete a criminal justice bachelor-level program have a wide variety of potential employers, including law enforcement agencies, corrections and private agencies. A well-balanced curriculum promotes a blend of academic and practical knowledge necessary for a successful career. Course Topics Crime scene investigation principles are explored in a variety of courses designed to familiarize students with key criminal justice, corrections and criminal law concepts. Coursework may include the following: Crime and Criminology The Police Function The Adjudication Function Criminal Procedure Criminal Law Master of Science in Economic Crime Management A master's level program focuses on cultivating knowledge and expertise necessary to investigate financial crime as well as developing leadership skills. This educational focus may lead to a multitude of career opportunities in the public as well as private sector, including management positions. Course Topics Program participants explore a variety of subjects designed to develop competencies in areas that may include: Fraud Management and Technology Financial Investigation Fraud Analysis Advanced Economic Crime Legal Concepts of Criminal Fraud Graduate students in an online program typically complete a culminating course or experience, such as a thesis or major project. Master of Science in Criminal Justice Existing law enforcement, corrections officers, probation officers and law clerks are only a few of the professionals who could benefit from this course of study, which prepares students for research and analysis of complex topics. Course Topics A master's level criminal justice degree program enhances the student's leadership and investigative skills. Required coursework may include: Organizational Behavior and Leadership in Criminal Justice Criminal Investigations Forensic Psychology Restorative Justice Terrorism and Homeland Security As with other master's programs, a project, thesis or comprehensive exam may be required of prospective graduates. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Study Crime Investigation Online: Overview of Learning Options RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Forensic Science Professions Video: Educational Requirements for a Career in Forensics Distance Learning Courses and Degree Programs Video Crime Investigation Degree Crime Scene Investigation Training Distance Learning University Degrees in Crime Scene Investigation Criminal Investigation Degree Program in Tampa Investigation Training Careers in Crime Investigation: Options and Requirements Training in crime investigation typically covers physical and written exams, background checks, and courses in investigation... Bachelor of Science (BS): Economic Crime Investigation Degree Overview Through a Bachelor of Science in Economic Crime Investigation program, students gain insight into business fraud and computer... Economic Crime Investigation Degree Program Overviews Students who are interested in careers detecting economic crime can study forensic accounting, digital forensics and auditing.... Arson Investigation Degree and Certificate Program Overviews Several schools offer certificate, associate's degree and bachelor's degree programs to train students in arson investigation.... 55 Colleges Under Investigation for Unethical Student Loan Practices Criminal Investigation Degrees in FL Criminal Investigation Degrees in Pompano Beach, FL Animal Cruelty Investigation Supervisor: Job Description & Requirements Masters Degree in Crime Scene Investigation: Program Information Economic Crime Investigation Salary and Career Information Long Island, NY, Job Outlook & Overview of Growing Careers Biomedical Engineer: Job Duties & Career Requirements Should I Major in Electrical Engineering? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Doctorate Programs in Public Health: Distance Learning Options Forensic Nurse: Job Outlook for Forensic Nursing Top Schools with Sociology PhD Programs: List of Schools Medical Coding and Billing: Online Diploma What Does a Consultant Do? How to Become a Child Care Director: Step-by-Step Career Guide Van Nuys, California (CA) Colleges How to Become an Automotive Engineering Technician How to Become an Automobile Salesman Career Roadmap Become a Cardiac Catheterization Technician Step-by-Step Career Guide Theater Management Education and Career Roadmap Online Elementary School Principal Certification and Degree Programs Clifton, New Jersey (NJ) Colleges Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Kaplan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED 🌟 Graduate faster & save money with Study.com transfer credit 🌟 Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice MSCJ - Leadership and Executive Management MS in Cybersecurity Management MS in Criminal Justice - Corrections MSCJ - Global Issues in Criminal Justice Bachelor BS in Corrections BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Crime Scene Investigation BS in Criminal Justice - Juvenile Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BS in Cybersecurity Associate AAS in Criminal Justice and Criminology AAS in Criminal Justice AAS in Public Safety and Security AAS in Fire Science Get Started with Kaplan University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. Program Info Online Programs Master MS/Criminal Justice - Forensic Science MS-Criminal Justice MS/Criminal Justice - Cybercrime and Technology MS/Criminal Justice - Law Enforcement and Corrections Administration MS/Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Bachelor BA/Social and Criminal Justice - Criminal Investigations Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice: Public Safety Administration concentration MS in Cyber Security MS in Criminal Justice: Advanced Counterterrorism & Homeland Security concentration MSM in Emergency Management MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4Colorado Technical University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Management Criminal Justice Doctor of Management in Homeland Security Master MS in Criminal Justice MS in Management - Homeland Security Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy Master of Science in Homeland Security Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Master of Science in Homeland Security - Cybersecurity Policy Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice - Cybercrime and Security Get Started with Colorado Technical University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate No HS Diploma/No GED 5Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration - Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Project Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor Bachelor of Science - Criminal Justice: Supervision and Management Concentration BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety Associate AS in Criminal Justice Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 6Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree Program Info Online Programs Doctorate PhD in Criminal Justice - Justice Administration-Advanced Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Criminal Justice (Course-based) DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - General-Advanced PhD in Criminal Justice - General Ph.D. in Social Work-Criminal Justice Master MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy Master of Public Administration in Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice - General MS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Master Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 8Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement MS in Leadership: Disaster Preparedness & Executive Fire Leadership Bachelor BS in Justice Studies BS in Public Safety and Emergency Management B.S. in Information Technology with an Emphasis in Cyber Security Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 9University of Delaware School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Cybersecurity Get Started with University of Delaware What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Criminal Justice BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Fire Safety and Protection Legal Research and Professional Studies Legal Support Services Select your specialty subject area Corrections Admin Corrections, Probation, and Parole Criminal Justice and Safety Studies Criminal Science Forensic Science Juvenile Corrections Law Enforcement Administration Police Science and Law Enforcement Securities Services Mgmt Security and Theft Prevention Services What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Kaplan University MS in Criminal Justice MSCJ - Leadership and Executive Management MS in Cybersecurity Management MS in Criminal Justice - Corrections MSCJ - Global Issues in Criminal Justice BS in Corrections BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Crime Scene Investigation BS in Criminal Justice - Juvenile Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BS in Cybersecurity AAS in Criminal Justice and Criminology AAS in Criminal Justice AAS in Public Safety and Security AAS in Fire Science View more Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 2 Ashford University MS/Criminal Justice - Forensic Science MS-Criminal Justice MS/Criminal Justice - Cybercrime and Technology MS/Criminal Justice - Law Enforcement and Corrections Administration MS/Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BA/Social and Criminal Justice - Criminal Investigations What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice: Public Safety Administration concentration MS in Cyber Security MS in Criminal Justice: Advanced Counterterrorism & Homeland Security concentration MSM in Emergency Management MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4 Colorado Technical University Doctor of Management Criminal Justice Doctor of Management in Homeland Security MS in Criminal Justice MS in Management - Homeland Security Master of Science in Cybersecurity Policy Master of Science in Homeland Security Master of Science in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Master of Science in Homeland Security - Cybersecurity Policy Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice - Cybercrime and Security View more Are you a US citizen? Select One... Yes No 5 Herzing University Master of Business Administration - Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Project Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor of Science - Criminal Justice: Supervision and Management Concentration BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety AS in Criminal Justice What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 6 Walden University PhD in Criminal Justice - Justice Administration-Advanced Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Criminal Justice (Course-based) DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - General-Advanced PhD in Criminal Justice - General Ph.D. in Social Work-Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy Master of Public Administration in Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination MS in Criminal Justice - General MS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7 University of the Rockies Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 8 Grand Canyon University MS in Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement MS in Leadership: Disaster Preparedness & Executive Fire Leadership BS in Justice Studies BS in Public Safety and Emergency Management B.S. in Information Technology with an Emphasis in Cyber Security View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 9 University of Delaware MS in Cybersecurity What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10 Baker College Online BS in Criminal Justice BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
