#ThisURL#
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/current-issues/tobacco-free-schools-the-issue/
#SubURL#
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/current-issues/electronic-cigarettes/
https://www.facebook.com/TobaccoFreeFlorida
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/current-issues/tobacco-free-beaches-and-parks-the-issue/tobacco-free-beaches-and-parks-advocacy-and-results/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/current-issues/tobacco-free-schools-the-issue/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/current-issues/smokeless-tobacco-the-issue/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/how-to-quit/helping-friends-and-family-quit/help-someone-stay-tobacco-free/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/how-to-quit/smokeless-tobacco-what-you-need-to-know/smokeless-tobacco-health-effects/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/how-to-quit/helping-employees-quit/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/multimedia-champion-videos/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/accessibility/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/how-to-quit/3-ways-quit/florida-quitline/
http://thefactsnow.com/
http://www.youtube.com/user/tobaccofreeflorida
http://www.facebook.com/TobaccoFreeFlorida
https://twitter.com/tobaccofreefla
http://www.floridahealth.gov
https://twitter.com/share
#Title#
Tobacco Free Schools | Tobacco Free Florida
#Content#
Tobacco Free Florida To protect the people of Florida from the dangers of tobacco. Let's Connect: English Español Search Quitting Tobacco 3 Ways To Quit Florida Quitline Online Support In person FAQs Why Should I Quit? Effects of Tobacco Benefits of Quitting Cost of Tobacco Use Helping Friends and Family Quit Help Someone Choose to Quit Help Someone Stay Tobacco Free Help Someone Overcome with Relapse Helping Employees Quit Quit Tips Nicotine Replacement Therapy Common Triggers Symptoms & Coping Smokeless Tobacco What You Need to Know Health Effects Video Testimonials Tips From Former Smokers Champion Videos Healthcare Providers Health Current Issues Tobacco Free Beaches & Parks The Issue Advocacy & Results Tobacco Free Colleges The Issue Advocacy & Results Tobacco Free Schools The Issue Advocacy & Results Tobacco Free Worksites Smokeless Tobacco The Issue The Ugly Truth Smoke-Free Housing The Issue Advocacy & Results Residents Advocacy & Results Owners & Property Managers Candy Flavored Tobacco The Issue Advocacy & Results Electronic Cigarettes Hookah The Issue Its Prevalence FCIAA The Issue Report a Violation Get Involved Get Involved Students Working Against Tobacco (SWAT) Teens Home » Current Issues » Tobacco Free Schools Tobacco Free Schools While smoking is banned inside school buildings, not all school districts in Florida have comprehensive policies that restrict smoking and the use of other tobacco products on all of their properties or at their events. Comprehensive tobacco free school policies are an important step in building a healthier future. These policies create a safe and healthy environment for students, faculty, and staff, while sending a clear message that tobacco use is dangerous and that it’s not a socially acceptable behavior. Tobacco free schools also reduce exposure to secondhand smoke (SHS) and encourage tobacco users to consume less of these addictive products — and to possibly quit. Schools that are not tobacco free send conflicting messages to students about the dangers of tobacco use and the health effects of SHS. It’s important to continue teaching Florida’s youth about socially responsible and healthy behaviors, including not using tobacco. Teaching by example is the first step in doing so. Preventing youth from using tobacco is imperative in combating the tobacco epidemic, especially since nine out of 10 smokers start by age 18. 1 De-normalizing tobacco use through positive role modeling is one important step. If students don’t see adults at their schools using tobacco, then they’ll be less likely to think tobacco is acceptable and will be less likely to ever start. We can help keep young people tobacco free by creating a world where seeing people smoke or use other tobacco products is the exception, not the norm. 2 Help Create Tobacco Free Schools in Florida See which school districts have gone tobacco free and learn how you can get involved. Click Here for More Info Get Smart Every day, an estimated 1,315 people in the United States die because of smoking. For each of those deaths, at least two youth or young adults become regular smokers each day. 3 Of every three young smokers, only one will quit, and one of those remaining smokers will die from tobacco-related causes. Young people rarely consider the long-term health consequences associated with tobacco use when they start. Because of nicotine, a highly addictive drug, three out of four youth continue using tobacco well into adulthood, often with serious and even deadly consequences. Adolescents’ bodies are more sensitive to nicotine, and adolescents are more easily addicted than adults. 4 If current smoking rates continue, 5.6 million U.S. children alive today who are younger than 18 years of age will die prematurely as a result of smoking. 5 Smoking remains the leading preventable cause of premature disease and death in the U.S. Tobacco has killed more than 20 million people prematurely since the first Surgeon General’s report in 1964. Secondhand smoke (SHS) is also a serious problem. It contains a deadly mix of more than 7,000 chemicals, hundreds of which are toxic and at least 80 known to cause cancer. 6 Breathing SHS increases a child’s risk of lung problems, ear infections, and severe asthma. SHS can trigger an asthma attack. A severe asthma attack can put a child’s life in danger. 7 There is no risk-free level of exposure to SHS. Breathing even a little SHS can be dangerous. 8 Since 1964, 2.5 million nonsmokers in the U.S. have died because of SHS exposure. 9 Each year, exposure to SHS causes nearly 50,000 premature deaths among U.S. nonsmokers. 10 11 12 Tweet References 1 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Preventing Tobacco Use Among Youth and Young Adults: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2012. 2 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Preventing Tobacco Use Among Youth and Young Adults: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2012. 3 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Smoking —50 Years of Progress: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014 4 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Coordinating Center for Health Promotion, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2006. 5 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Smoking —50 Years of Progress: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014. 6 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. How Tobacco Smoke Causes Disease: The Biology and Behavioral Basis for Smoking-Attributable Disease: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2010. 7 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ―The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General.‖ U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2006 8 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Coordinating Center for Health Promotion, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2006 9 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Smoking—50 Years of Progress. A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta, GA: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2014. Printed with corrections, January 2014. 10Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Years of Potential Life Lost, and Productivity Losses—United States, 2000–2004. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report 2008;57(45):1226–8. 11U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General. Atlanta: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Coordinating Center for Health Promotion, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Office on Smoking and Health, 2006. 12American Cancer Society. Cancer Facts and Figures 2013. Atlanta: American Cancer Society, 2013 [accessed 2013 Feb 10]. Cost Calculator TOOLS Quit Kit Cost Calculator Fact Database E-Cards Relevant Links Interactive Timeline Press Center Press Releases Fact Sheets Media Kit Tobacco Related Infographics Videos Press Contact CURRENT ISSUES Beaches & Parks Tobacco Free Colleges Tobacco Free Schools Smokeless Tobacco Smokefree Housing Candy Flavored Tobacco Florida Clean Indoor Air Act Events Event Calender List of Events Multimedia TV Spots Champion Videos Infographics Tips From Former Smokers About Us About Us Contact Us SWAT Get Involved Connect Blog Twitter Facebook Youtube © 2016 Tobacco Free Florida, All Rights Reserved. Español Sitemap Accessibility Privacy Policy Tobacco Free Florida Quitting Tobacco 3 Ways To Quit Florida Quitline Online Support In person FAQs Why Should I Quit? Effects of Tobacco Benefits of Quitting Cost of Tobacco Use Helping Friends and Family Quit Help Someone Choose to Quit Help Someone Stay Tobacco Free Help Someone Overcome with Relapse Helping Employees Quit Quit Tips Nicotine Replacement Therapy Common Triggers Symptoms & Coping Smokeless Tobacco What You Need to Know Health Effects Video Testimonials Tips From Former Smokers Champion Videos Healthcare Providers Health Current Issues Tobacco Free Beaches & Parks The Issue Advocacy & Results Tobacco Free Colleges The Issue Advocacy & Results Tobacco Free Schools The Issue Advocacy & Results Tobacco Free Worksites Smokeless Tobacco The Issue The Ugly Truth Smoke-Free Housing The Issue Advocacy & Results Residents Advocacy & Results Owners & Property Managers Candy Flavored Tobacco The Issue Advocacy & Results Electronic Cigarettes Hookah The Issue Its Prevalence FCIAA The Issue Report a Violation Get Involved Get Involved Students Working Against Tobacco (SWAT) Teens
