#ThisURL#
http://www.bls.gov/ooh/life-physical-and-social-science/environmental-scientists-and-specialists.htm#tab-5
#SubURL#
http://www.bls.gov/developers/home.htm
http://www.dol.gov/dol/findit.htm
http://www.bls.gov/iirc/
http://www.bls.gov/data/#api
http://www.bls.gov/newsroom/
http://www.bls.gov/ooh/life-physical-and-social-science/environmental-scientists-and-specialists.htm#TB_inline?height=325&width=325&inlineId=about-pay
http://www.bls.gov/cpi/
http://blogs.bls.gov/blog/
http://www.bls.gov/ooh/about/ooh-faqs.htm
http://www.bls.gov/bls/research.htm
http://www.bls.gov/bls/pss.htm
http://www.bls.gov/dolfaq/blsfaqtoc.htm
http://www.benefits.gov/
http://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/19-2041.03
http://www.projectionscentral.com/
http://www.careerinfonet.org/Occupations/select_occupation.aspx?next=occ_rep&level=&optstatus=111111111&id=1&nodeid=2&soccode=&stfips=&jobfam=&menuMode
http://beta.bls.gov/dataQuery/
http://www.ucp.ucar.edu/educators-and-students
http://download.bls.gov/pub/time.series/
https://subscriptions.bls.gov/accounts/USDOLBLS/subscriber/new
http://www.oig.dol.gov/
http://www.americangeosciences.org
http://scied.ucar.edu/students
http://www.ihmm.org/certificants/chmm
http://www.usa.gov/
http://www.neha.org/index.shtml
https://www.disability.gov/
http://twitter.com/BLS_gov
http://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/19-2041.02
http://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/19-2041.01
http://www.onetonline.org/link/summary/19-2041.00
http://www.dol.gov/
http://www.careeronestop.org/SalariesBenefits/Sal_default.aspx
http://data.bls.gov/ooh/about/ooh-faqs.htm
http://beta.bls.gov
http://beta.bls.gov/maps/cew/us
#Title#
Environmental Scientists and Specialists : Occupational Outlook Handbook: : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
#Content#
Skip to Content US Department of Labor A to Z Index  |  FAQs  |  About BLS  |  Contact Us     E-mail: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Follow Us | What's New | Release Calendar | Site Map Home Subject Areas» Inflation & Prices Spending & Time Use Unemployment Employment Pay & Benefits Productivity Workplace Injuries International Demographics Industries Business Costs Occupations Geography Resources For » Business Leaders Consumers Developers Economists Investors Jobseekers Media Public Policymakers Students & Teachers Survey Respondents   At a Glance Tables » U.S. Economy Regions, States, & Areas Industries MORE » Announcements BLS Speakers Available Commissioner's Corner Research Spotlight on Statistics Students' Pages Errata Other Statistical Sites Subjects Inflation & Prices » Consumer Price Index Producer Price Indexes Import/Export Price Indexes Employment Cost Index Contract Escalation Price Index Research Inflation & Prices Overview   Pay & Benefits » Employment Costs National Compensation Data Wages by Area & Occupation Earnings by Demographics Earnings by Industry County Wages Benefits Compensation Research Strikes & Lockouts Pay & Benefits Overview   Spending & Time Use » Consumer Expenditures How Americans Spend Time Unemployment » National Unemployment Rate State & Local Unemployment Rates Unemployment Research Unemployment Overview   Employment » National Employment State & Local Employment State & County Employment Worker Characteristics Employment Projections Job Openings & Labor Turnover Employment by Occupation Work Experience Over Time Business Employment Dynamics Employment Research Employment Overview   Workplace Injuries » Productivity » Labor Productivity & Costs Multifactor Productivity Productivity Research Productivity Overview   International » International Technical Cooperation Import/Export Price Indexes International Overview   REGIONAL OFFICES » New England (Boston) New York-New Jersey (NY City) Mid-Atlantic (Philadelphia) Southeast (Atlanta) Midwest (Chicago) Southwest (Dallas) Mountain-Plains (Kansas City) West (San Francisco) Regional Overview Data Tools Data Retrieval Tools » Top Picks Series Report One Screen Multi-Screen Maps Calculators Public Data API   CUSTOMIZED TABLES » Text Files News Release Tables   More Sources of Data » Discontinued Databases FAQs Special Notices More Sources of Data Publications Latest Publications » The Economics Daily Monthly Labor Review Beyond the Numbers Spotlight on Statistics Reports & Bulletins Commissioner's Corner     Career Outlook Occupational Outlook Handbook Handbook of Methods Research Papers Copyright Information Contact & Help Economic Releases Latest Releases »   Major Economic Indicators »   Schedules for news Releases » By Month By News Release Current Year Prior Years   Archived News Releases » Employment & Unemployment » Monthly Quarterly, annual, and other   Inflation & Prices »   Pay & Benefits & Workplace Injuries »   Productivity & Technology »   Employment Projections »   International Programs »   Regional News Releases » Students Games & Quizzes Student Resources Teacher´s Desk History of BLS FAQs Beta Topics at a Glance » Data Finder » State and County Map » OOH HOME | OCCUPATION FINDER | OOH FAQ | OOH GLOSSARY | A-Z INDEX | OOH SITE MAP | EN ESPAÑOL Life, Physical, and Social Science > Environmental Scientists and Specialists PRINTER-FRIENDLY EN ESPAÑOL Summary What They Do Work Environment How to Become One Pay Job Outlook State & Area Data Similar Occupations More Info Summary Some environmental scientists study the effects that various chemicals have on the ecosystem. Quick Facts: Environmental Scientists and Specialists 2014 Median Pay $66,250 per year $31.85 per hour Typical Entry-Level Education Bachelor's degree Work Experience in a Related Occupation None On-the-job Training None Number of Jobs, 2014 94,600 Job Outlook, 2014-24 11% (Faster than average) Employment Change, 2014-24 10,200 What Environmental Scientists and Specialists Do Environmental scientists and specialists use their knowledge of the natural sciences to protect the environment and human health. They may clean up polluted areas, advise policymakers, or work with industry to reduce waste. Work Environment Environmental scientists and specialists work in offices and laboratories. Some may spend time in the field gathering data and monitoring environmental conditions firsthand. Most environmental scientists and specialists work full time. How to Become an Environmental Scientist or Specialist Environmental scientists and specialists need at least a bachelor’s degree in a natural science or science-related field for most entry-level jobs. Pay The median annual wage for environmental scientists and specialists was $66,250 in May 2014. Job Outlook Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 11 percent from 2014 to 2024, faster than the average for all occupations. Heightened public interest in the hazards facing the environment, as well as the increasing demands placed on the environment by population growth, is expected to spur demand for environmental scientists and specialists. State & Area Data Explore resources for employment and wages by state and area for environmental scientists and specialists. Similar Occupations Compare the job duties, education, job growth, and pay of environmental scientists and specialists with similar occupations. More Information, Including Links to O*NET Learn more about environmental scientists and specialists by visiting additional resources, including O*NET, a source on key characteristics of workers and occupations. What They Do -> What Environmental Scientists and Specialists Do About this section Environmental scientists use their knowledge of the natural sciences to protect the environment. Environmental scientists and specialists use their knowledge of the natural sciences to protect the environment and human health. They may clean up polluted areas, advise policymakers, or work with industry to reduce waste. Duties Environmental scientists and specialists typically do the following: Determine data collection methods for research projects, investigations, and surveys Collect and compile environmental data from samples of air, soil, water, food, and other materials for scientific analysis Analyze samples, surveys, and other information to identify and assess threats to the environment Develop plans to prevent, control, or fix environmental problems, such as land or water pollution Provide information and guidance to government officials, businesses, and the general public on possible environmental hazards and health risks Prepare technical reports and presentations that explain their research and findings Environmental scientists and specialists analyze environmental problems and develop solutions. For example, many environmental scientists and specialists work to reclaim lands and waters that have been contaminated by pollution. Others assess the risks that new construction projects pose to the environment and make recommendations to governments and businesses on how to minimize the environmental impact of these projects. Environmental scientists and specialists may do research and provide advice on manufacturing practices, such as advising against the use of chemicals that are known to harm the environment. The federal government and many state and local governments have regulations to ensure that there is clean air to breathe, safe water to drink, and no hazardous materials in the soil. The regulations also place limits on development, particularly near sensitive ecosystems such as wetlands. Environmental scientists and specialists who work for governments ensure that the regulations are followed. Other environmental scientists and specialists work for consulting firms that help companies comply with regulations and policies. Some environmental scientists and specialists focus on environmental regulations that are designed to protect people’s health, while others focus on regulations designed to minimize society’s impact on the ecosystem. The following are examples of types of specialists: Climate change analysts study effects on ecosystems caused by the changing climate. They may do outreach education activities and grant writing typical of scientists. Environmental health specialists study how environmental factors impact human health. They investigate potential environmental health risks. For example, they may investigate and address issues arising from soil and water contamination caused by nuclear weapons manufacturing. They also educate the public about potential health risks present in the environment. Environmental restoration planners assess polluted sites and determine the cost and activities necessary to clean up the area. Industrial ecologists work with industry to increase the efficiency of their operations and thereby limit the impacts these activities have on the environment. They analyze costs and benefits of various programs, as well as their impacts on ecosystems. Other environmental scientists and specialists perform work and receive training similar to that of other physical or life scientists, but they focus on environmental issues. Environmental chemists are an example. Environmental chemists study the effects that various chemicals have on ecosystems. For example, they look at how acids affect plants, animals, and people. Some areas in which they work include waste management and the remediation of contaminated soils, water, and air. Many people with backgrounds in environmental science become postsecondary teachers or high school teachers. <- Summary Work Environment -> Work Environment About this section Many environmental scientists and specialists work in laboratories. Environmental scientists and specialists held about 94,600 jobs in 2014. The industries that employed the most environmental scientists and specialists were as follows: Management, scientific, and technical consulting services 23% State government, excluding education and hospitals 22 Local government, excluding education and hospitals 13 Engineering services 10 Federal government, excluding postal service 6 Environmental scientists and specialists work in offices and laboratories. Some may spend time in the field gathering data and monitoring environmental conditions firsthand, but this work is much more likely to be done by environmental science and protection technicians. Fieldwork can be physically demanding, and environmental scientists and specialists may work in all types of weather. Environmental scientists and specialists may have to travel to meet with clients or present research at conferences. Work Schedules Most environmental scientists and specialists work full time. They may have to work more than 40 hours a week when working in the field. <- What They Do How to Become One -> How to Become an Environmental Scientist or Specialist About this section For most jobs, environmental scientists and specialists need at least a bachelor’s degree in a natural science. For most jobs, environmental scientists and specialists need at least a bachelor’s degree in a natural science. Education For most entry-level jobs, environmental scientists and specialists must have a bachelor’s degree in environmental science or a science-related field, such as biology, chemistry, physics, geosciences, or engineering. However, a master’s degree may be needed for advancement. Environmental scientists and specialists who have a doctoral degree make up a small percentage of the occupation, and this level of training is typically needed only for the relatively few postsecondary teaching and basic research positions. A bachelor’s degree in environmental science offers a broad approach to the natural sciences. Students typically take courses in biology, chemistry, geology, and physics. Students often take specialized courses in hydrology or waste management as part of their degree as well. Classes in environmental policy and regulation are also beneficial. Students who want to reach the Ph.D. level and have a career in academia or as an environmental scientist doing basic research may find it advantageous to major in a more specific natural science such as chemistry, biology, physics, or geology, rather than a broader environmental science degree. Students should look for classes and internships that include work in computer modeling, data analysis, and geographic information systems. Students with experience in these programs will be the best prepared to enter the job market. The University Consortium of Atmospheric Research (UCAR) offers several programs to help students broaden their understanding of environmental sciences. Important Qualities Analytical skills. Environmental scientists and specialists base their conclusions on careful analysis of scientific data. They must consider all possible methods and solutions in their analyses. Communication skills. Environmental scientists and specialists may need to present and explain their findings to audiences of varying backgrounds and to write technical reports. Interpersonal skills. Environmental scientists and specialists typically work on teams with scientists, engineers, and technicians. Team members must be able to work together effectively to achieve their goals. Problem-solving skills. Environmental scientists and specialists try to find the best possible solution to problems that affect the environment and people’s health. Self-discipline. Environmental scientists and specialists may spend a lot of time working alone. They need to be able to stay motivated and get their work done without supervision. Advancement Environmental scientists and specialists often begin their careers as field analysts, research assistants, or technicians in laboratories and offices. As they gain experience, they earn more responsibilities and autonomy, and may supervise the work of technicians or other scientists. Eventually, they may be promoted to project leader, program manager, or other management or research position. Other environmental scientists and specialists go on to work as researchers or faculty at colleges and universities. Licenses, Certifications, and Registrations Environmental scientists and specialists can become Certified Hazardous Materials Managers through the Institute of Hazardous Materials Management. This certification, which must be renewed every 5 years, shows that an environmental scientist or specialist is staying current with developments relevant to this occupation’s work. Work Experience in a Related Occupation Some environmental scientists and specialists begin their careers as scientists in related occupations, such as hydrology or engineering, and then move into the more interdisciplinary field of environmental science. <- Work Environment Pay -> Pay About this section Environmental Scientists and Specialists Median annual wages, May 2014 Physical scientists $76,260 Environmental scientists and specialists, including health $66,250 Total, all occupations $35,540   Note: All Occupations includes all occupations in the U.S. Economy. Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Occupational Employment Statistics The median annual wage for environmental scientists and specialists was $66,250 in May 2014. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $39,730, and the highest 10 percent earned more than $114,990. In May 2014, the median annual wages for environmental scientists and specialists in the top industries in which they worked were as follows: Federal government, excluding postal service $97,000 Engineering services 68,240 Management, scientific, and technical consulting services 68,060 Local government, excluding education and hospitals 61,270 State government, excluding education and hospitals 59,010 Most environmental scientists and specialists work full time. They may have to work more than 40 hours a week if they work in the field. <- How to Become One Job Outlook -> Job Outlook About this section Environmental Scientists and Specialists Percent change in employment, projected 2014-24 Environmental scientists and specialists, including health 11% Physical scientists 7% Total, all occupations 7%   Note: All Occupations includes all occupations in the U.S. Economy. Source: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Employment Projections program Employment of environmental scientists and specialists is projected to grow 11 percent from 2014 to 2024, faster than the average for all occupations. Heightened public interest in the hazards facing the environment, as well as the increasing demands placed on the environment by population growth, is projected to spur demand for environmental scientists and specialists. Most employment growth for environmental scientists and specialists is projected to be in private consulting firms that help clients monitor and manage environmental concerns and comply with regulations. However, many jobs will remain concentrated in state and local levels of government and closely related industries. More businesses are expected to consult with environmental scientists and specialists in the future to help them minimize the impact their operations have on the environment. For example, environmental consultants help businesses to develop practices that minimize waste, prevent pollution, and conserve resources. Other environmental scientists and specialists are expected to be needed to help planners develop and construct buildings, utilities, and transportation systems that protect natural resources and limit damage to the land. Job Prospects Environmental scientists and specialists should have good job opportunities. In addition to growth, many job openings will be created by scientists who retire, advance to management positions, or change careers. Employment projections data for environmental scientists and specialists, 2014-24 Occupational Title SOC Code Employment, 2014 Projected Employment, 2024 Change, 2014-24 Employment by Industry Percent Numeric SOURCE: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Employment Projections program Environmental scientists and specialists, including health 19-2041 94,600 104,800 11 10,200 [XLSX] <- Pay State & Area Data -> State & Area Data About this section Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) The Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) program produces employment and wage estimates annually for over 800 occupations. These estimates are available for the nation as a whole, for individual states, and for metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas. The link(s) below go to OES data maps for employment and wages by state and area. Environmental scientists and specialists, including health Projections Central Occupational employment projections are developed for all states by Labor Market Information (LMI) or individual state Employment Projections offices. All state projections data are available at www.projectionscentral.com. Information on this site allows projected employment growth for an occupation to be compared among states or to be compared within one state. In addition, states may produce projections for areas; there are links to each state’s websites where these data may be retrieved. Career InfoNet America’s Career InfoNet includes hundreds of occupational profiles with data available by state and metro area. There are links in the left-hand side menu to compare occupational employment by state and occupational wages by local area or metro area. There is also a salary info tool to search for wages by zip code. <- Job Outlook Similar Occupations -> Similar Occupations About this section This table shows a list of occupations with job duties that are similar to those of environmental scientists and specialists. Occupation Job Duties ENTRY-LEVEL EDUCATION 2014 MEDIAN PAY Agricultural and Food Scientists Agricultural and food scientists research ways to improve the efficiency and safety of agricultural establishments and products. Bachelor's degree $60,690 Anthropologists and Archeologists Anthropologists and archeologists study the origin, development, and behavior of humans. They examine the cultures, languages, archeological remains, and physical characteristics of people in various parts of the world. Master's degree $59,280 Atmospheric Scientists, Including Meteorologists Atmospheric scientists study the weather and climate, and how those conditions affect human activity and the earth in general. Bachelor's degree $87,980 Biochemists and Biophysicists Biochemists and biophysicists study the chemical and physical principles of living things and of biological processes, such as cell development, growth, heredity, and disease. Doctoral or professional degree $84,940 Chemists and Materials Scientists Chemists and materials scientists study substances at the atomic and molecular levels and the ways in which the substances interact with one another. They use their knowledge to develop new and improved products and to test the quality of manufactured goods. Bachelor's degree $74,720 Conservation Scientists and Foresters Conservation scientists and foresters manage the overall land quality of forests, parks, rangelands, and other natural resources. Bachelor's degree $60,360 Environmental Engineers Environmental engineers use the principles of engineering, soil science, biology, and chemistry to develop solutions to environmental problems. They are involved in efforts to improve recycling, waste disposal, public health, and water and air pollution control. Bachelor's degree $83,360 Environmental Science and Protection Technicians Environmental science and protection technicians monitor the environment and investigate sources of pollution and contamination, including those affecting public health. In addition, they work to ensure that environmental violations are prevented. Associate's degree $42,190 Epidemiologists Epidemiologists are public health professionals who investigate patterns and causes of disease and injury in humans. They seek to reduce the risk and occurrence of negative health outcomes through research, community education, and health policy. Master's degree $67,420 Geoscientists Geoscientists study the physical aspects of the Earth, such as its composition, structure, and processes, to learn about its past, present, and future. Bachelor's degree $89,910 Hydrologists Hydrologists study how water moves across and through the Earth’s crust. They use their expertise to solve problems in the areas of water quality or availability. Bachelor's degree $78,370 Microbiologists Microbiologists study microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses, algae, fungi, and some types of parasites. They try to understand how these organisms live, grow, and interact with their environments. Bachelor's degree $67,790 Natural Sciences Managers Natural sciences managers supervise the work of scientists, including chemists, physicists, and biologists. They direct activities related to research and development, and coordinate activities such as testing, quality control, and production. Bachelor's degree $120,050 Occupational Health and Safety Specialists Occupational health and safety specialists analyze many types of work environments and work procedures. Specialists inspect workplaces for adherence to regulations on safety, health, and the environment. They also design programs to prevent disease or injury to workers and damage to the environment. Bachelor's degree $69,210 Postsecondary Teachers Postsecondary teachers instruct students in a wide variety of academic and career and technical subjects beyond the high school level. They also conduct research and publish scholarly papers and books. See How to Become One $70,790 Zoologists and Wildlife Biologists Zoologists and wildlife biologists study animals and other wildlife and how they interact with their ecosystems. They study the physical characteristics of animals, animal behaviors, and the impacts humans have on wildlife and natural habitats. Bachelor's degree $58,270 <- State & Area Data More Info -> Contacts for More Information About this section For more information about environmental scientists and specialists, including training, visit American Geosciences Institute UCAR For more information about certification as a Certified Hazardous Materials Manager, visit Institute of Hazardous Materials Management For information about environmental health specialists and related occupations, visit National Environmental Health Association O*NET Climate Change Analysts Environmental Restoration Planners Environmental Scientists and Specialists, Including Health Industrial Ecologists <- Similar Occupations Suggested citation: Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Outlook Handbook, 2016-17 Edition, Environmental Scientists and Specialists, on the Internet at http://www.bls.gov/ooh/life-physical-and-social-science/environmental-scientists-and-specialists.htm (visited April 14, 2016). Publish Date: Thursday, December 17, 2015 What They Do The What They Do tab describes the typical duties and responsibilities of workers in the occupation, including what tools and equipment they use and how closely they are supervised. This tab also covers different types of occupational specialties. Work Environment The Work Environment tab includes the number of jobs held in the occupation and describes the workplace, the level of physical activity expected, and typical hours worked. It may also discuss the major industries that employed the occupation. This tab may also describe opportunities for part-time work, the amount and type of travel required, any safety equipment that is used, and the risk of injury that workers may face. How to Become One The How to Become One tab describes how to prepare for a job in the occupation. This tab can include information on education, training, work experience, licensing and certification, and important qualities that are required or helpful for entering or working in the occupation. Pay The Pay tab describes typical earnings and how workers in the occupation are compensated—annual salaries, hourly wages, commissions, tips, or bonuses. Within every occupation, earnings vary by experience, responsibility, performance, tenure, and geographic area. This tab may also provide information on earnings in the major industries employing the occupation. State & Area Data The State and Area Data tab provides links to state and area occupational data from the Occupational Employment Statistics (OES) program, state projections data from Projections Central, and occupational information from the Department of Labor's Career InfoNet. Job Outlook The Job Outlook tab describes the factors that affect employment growth or decline in the occupation, and in some instances, describes the relationship between the number of job seekers and the number of job openings. Similar Occupations The Similar Occupations tab describes occupations that share similar duties, skills, interests, education, or training with the occupation covered in the profile. Contacts for More Information The More Information tab provides the Internet addresses of associations, government agencies, unions, and other organizations that can provide additional information on the occupation. This tab also includes links to relevant occupational information from the Occupational Information Network (O*NET). 2014 Median Pay The wage at which half of the workers in the occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. Median wage data are from the BLS Occupational Employment Statistics survey. In May 2014, the median annual wage for all workers was $35,540. On-the-job Training Additional training needed (postemployment) to attain competency in the skills needed in this occupation. Entry-level Education Typical level of education that most workers need to enter this occupation. Work experience in a related occupation Work experience that is commonly considered necessary by employers, or is a commonly accepted substitute for more formal types of training or education. Number of Jobs, 2014 The employment, or size, of this occupation in 2014, which is the base year of the 2014-24 employment projections. Job Outlook, 2014-24 The projected percent change in employment from 2014 to 2024. The average growth rate for all occupations is 7 percent. Employment Change, 2014-24 The projected numeric change in employment from 2014 to 2024. Entry-level Education Typical level of education that most workers need to enter this occupation. On-the-job Training Additional training needed (postemployment) to attain competency in the skills needed in this occupation. Employment Change, projected 2014-24 The projected numeric change in employment from 2014 to 2024. Growth Rate (Projected) The percent change of employment for each occupation from 2014 to 2024. Projected Number of New Jobs The projected numeric change in employment from 2014 to 2024. Projected Growth Rate The projected percent change in employment from 2014 to 2024. 2014 Median Pay The wage at which half of the workers in the occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. Median wage data are from the BLS Occupational Employment Statistics survey. In May 2014, the median annual wage for all workers was $35,547. Recommend this page using: Facebook Twitter LinkedIn tools Areas at a Glance Industries at a Glance Economic Releases Databases & Tables Maps calculators Inflation Location Quotient Injury And Illness help Help & Tutorials FAQs Glossary About BLS Contact Us info What's New Careers @ BLS Find It! DOL Join our Mailing Lists Linking & Copyright Info resources Inspector General (OIG) Budget and Performance No Fear Act USA.gov Benefits.gov Disability.gov Freedom of Information Act  |  Privacy & Security Statement  |  Disclaimers  |  Customer Survey  |  Important Web Site Notices U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics | Office of Occupational Statistics and Employment Projections, PSB Suite 2135, 2 Massachusetts Avenue, NE Washington, DC 20212-0001 www.bls.gov/ooh | Telephone: 1-202-691-5700 | Contact OOH
