#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Become_a_Certified_Loan_Closer_Career_Roadmap_with_Certification_Info.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Business/Business_Finance/Financial_Planning_Services.html
http://study.com/articles/Mortgage_Loan_Consultant_Job_Description_Duties_and_Requirements.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=USW
http://study.com/articles/Associates_Degree_in_Radiologic_Sciences.html
http://study.com/program/Southern_New_Hampshire_University_MS_in_Finance.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Become a Certified Loan Closer: Career Roadmap with Certification Info
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Business  /  Business Finance  /  Banking Related Services Business Business Finance Credit Management Financial Mgmt Services Financial Planning Services International Finance Investments and Securities Public Finance Mgmt Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Careers and Occupations List  /  Business  /  Become a Certified Loan Closer:... Become a Certified Loan Closer: Career Roadmap with Certification Info Find out how to become a certified loan closer. Research the education and training requirements and learn about the experience you need to advance your career in loan closing. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Should I Become a Certified Loan Closer? A loan closer prepares and reviews loan-closing documents to ensure they meet company standards and federal regulations before being signed by borrowers. These workers may also answer loan-related questions, solve problems that may arise during the loan closing process and handle the loan process from beginning to completion. Most work hours might be spent sitting at a desk. Career Requirements Degree Level High school diploma; some employers may prefer to hire candidates who possess a college degree Degree Field Finance, economics or business; paralegal studies Experience None required; some employers prefer candidates with 1-3 years of experience Licensure and Certification Licensure is required for mortgage loan closers; voluntary certification is available Key Skills Decision-making skills, organizational, interpersonal and communication skills, attention to detail, able to use Encompass software program; knowledge of federal and state loan regulations Salary $62,620 (median salary for all loan officers) Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Online job postings in December 2012 Step 1: Complete Relevant Coursework The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) states that high school diploma or its equivalent is the minimum education required to work as a loan closer. Completing classes in research and computer use while in high school may help aspiring loan closers prepare to enter the field. Success Tip: Research licensure requirements. Each state independently establishes licensure requirements for loan closers. Although by federal law all mortgage loan closers must be licensed, the licensure and other rules for handing closings of other types of loans differ in each state. Researching these requirements can help an individual identify what they must specifically do to be able to work as a loan closer in the state in which they intend to work. Step 2: Become Licensed Mortgage loan closers are required to be licensed in the state in which they work. Therefore, individuals interested in working with mortgage loans must obtain licensure prior to starting work in the field. The Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System (NMLS) licenses mortgage loan officers. Earning licensure requires completing a 20-hour training program and passing an exam. The training program covers federal laws and regulations, ethics, lending standards and mortgage origination. Step 3: Begin Working in the Field Loan closers handle all aspects of the closing process from beginning to end, from the time of obtaining borrower credit reports through transferring loan funding. Their tasks may include preparing loan-closing documents for state and federal authorities, checking loan documents for quality, assisting in funding requests and wires and working with all involved parties to resolve any problems that arise prior to closing a loan. Success Tip: Complete continuing education. Mortgage loan officers licensed through the NMLS must complete eight hours of continuing education every year. Retaining licensure is required to continue working with mortgage loans. Step 4: Earn Certification There is no specific certification required to work as a certified loan closer. Instead, loan officers can earn voluntary certifications from the American Bankers Association (ABA) or the National Association of Mortgage Brokers (NAMB). The ABA offers the Certified Lender Business Banker credential to commercial lending officers with five years of experience or a combination of post-secondary education and experience who pass an exam. The NAMB offers three credentials: the General Mortgage Associate (GMA) certification, which is open to individuals with no experience, the Certified Residential Mortgage Specialist (CRMS) certification, which is open to individuals with at least two years of experience and the Certified Mortgage Consultant (CMC) certification, which is available to mortgage specialists with at least five years of experience. Passing an exam is required to earn any of these credentials. Step 5: Keep Certification Current Each certification has continuing education requirements. Satisfying these requirements is necessary to retain the title of 'certified.' Holding and maintaining certification gives loan closers an edge in the job market. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Become a Certified Loan Closer: Career Roadmap with Certification Info RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Certified Meeting Planner Video: Career Options for Certified Meeting Planners Kitchen Design Career Video: Becoming a Certified Kitchen Designer Loan Closer Courses Loan Officer Training Loan Originator Degree Become a Loan Counselor Loan Officer Degrees Witness Loan Closer: Job Description and Requirements Witness loan closers require no formal education. Learn about the training, job duties and recommended skills to see if this is... TUITION WON'T STOP ME Winner Uses Scholarship to Avoid Student Loan Debt Study.com just wrapped up our first Tuition Won't Stop Me scholarship. We are very excited to announce our winner Wilhelmina... Mortgage Loan Consultant: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Mortgage loan consultants require little formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and licensure requirements to... Loan Underwriting License Information: How-To Guide Loan underwriting is the approving of a loan to one who wishes to take out a mortgage. Loan underwriters carefully review a... Online Student Loan Guide: Overview of Options Become a Loan Originator Loan Processor College Students with Good Credit Can Score Good Deals on an Auto Loan Student Loan Lenders Creating a New Credit Bubble The Dirty Secrets of the Privatized Student Loan Industry Master of Business Administration (MBA): E-Commerce Degree Overview Online Life Coach Training and Certification Programs Online Graphic Arts Bachelors Degree Program Info Human Resources: How Does One Become a Human Resource Professional Mortgage Broker: How to Become a Mortgage Loan Broker? Loan Document Specialist: Job Description and Requirements Reporting Analyst: Job Description and Education Requirements Graphic Designer: Education Requirements & Career Info How Much More Do College Graduates Earn Than Non-College Graduates? Associates Degree in Radiologic Sciences Medical Insurance Coder Certificate Overview of Certificate Programs Forensic Pathology Graduate Program Options Master's Degree in Social Work All About the GED Idaho Poultry Science Graduate Degree Program Overviews GED Classes Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Finance - Investments and Securities MS in Finance MBA in Finance International MBA in Finance MS in Accounting - Finance International MBA in Six Sigma Quality Bachelor BS Finance BS in Business Studies - Business Finance BS in Accounting - Finance BS in Accounting BS in Business Studies - Accounting BS in Business Studies - Org Leadership Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctorate in Business Administration Master MBA in Finance MBA in Accounting MBA in General Business Bachelor BBA in Finance BBA in Accounting BBA in Management Associate Associate of Business in Accounting Associate of Business Administration Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 3Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Finance MA-Accountancy MA/Accountancy - Accounting MBA MA/Accountancy - Audit MA/Accountancy - Tax Bachelor BA in Consumer and Family Financial Services BA in Finance BA in Sports and Recreation Management - Finance BA in Accounting Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ph.D. in Management - Finance Ph.D. in Management - Finance (Course-based) Doctor of Business Administration - Finance D.B.A. - Accounting Doctor of Business Administration - Leadership Master MS in Finance MBA - Corporate Finance MS in Accounting - General Master of Business Administration (MBA) - Accounting MS in Accounting - Accounting with CPA Emphasis Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Internet Marketing MS in Entertainment Business Bachelor BS in Music Business Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 6Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Business Administration - Management Master MBA: Finance MBA: Accounting MS in Accounting MBA MBA and MS in Leadership (Dual Degree) MBA: Leadership Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BS in Accounting BS in Finance and Economics BS in Applied Management BS in Business Admin. Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 7Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Technology Management Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Human Resources MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Project Management MBA Dual Concentration in Business Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration Associate AS in Business Administration Associate of Science - Accounting Associate of Science - Business Studies Non-Degree Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 8Norwich University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration Online Get Started with Norwich University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 9Utica College School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Finance/Accounting MA in Financial Crime and Compliance Management MBA in General MBA in Insurance & Risk Management Get Started with Utica College What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 10University of the Southwest School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Finance MBA in Accounting MBA - Self-Designed Get Started with University of the Southwest What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Accounting and Bookkeeping Business Economics Business Finance Business Management and Operations Business Marketing Business Support and Administrative Services Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development Hospitality Management Human Resource Management Information System Management International Business Sales and Merchandising Specialized Sales Select your specialty subject area Banking Related Services Credit Management Financial Mgmt Services Financial Planning Services International Finance Investments and Securities Public Finance Mgmt What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Finance - Investments and Securities MS in Finance MBA in Finance International MBA in Finance MS in Accounting - Finance International MBA in Six Sigma Quality BS Finance BS in Business Studies - Business Finance BS in Accounting - Finance BS in Accounting BS in Business Studies - Accounting BS in Business Studies - Org Leadership View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Baker College Online Doctorate in Business Administration MBA in Finance MBA in Accounting MBA in General Business BBA in Finance BBA in Accounting BBA in Management Associate of Business in Accounting Associate of Business Administration View more When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 3 Ashford University MBA in Finance MA-Accountancy MA/Accountancy - Accounting MBA MA/Accountancy - Audit MA/Accountancy - Tax BA in Consumer and Family Financial Services BA in Finance BA in Sports and Recreation Management - Finance BA in Accounting View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Walden University Ph.D. in Management - Finance Ph.D. in Management - Finance (Course-based) Doctor of Business Administration - Finance D.B.A. - Accounting Doctor of Business Administration - Leadership MS in Finance MBA - Corporate Finance MS in Accounting - General Master of Business Administration (MBA) - Accounting MS in Accounting - Accounting with CPA Emphasis View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 5 Full Sail University MS in Internet Marketing MS in Entertainment Business BS in Music Business What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 6 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management MBA: Finance MBA: Accounting MS in Accounting MBA MBA and MS in Leadership (Dual Degree) MBA: Leadership Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BS in Accounting BS in Finance and Economics BS in Applied Management BS in Business Admin. View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 7 Herzing University MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Technology Management Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Human Resources MBA Dual Concentration in Accounting & Project Management MBA Dual Concentration in Business Management & Public Safety Leadership BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration AS in Business Administration Associate of Science - Accounting Associate of Science - Business Studies Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Norwich University Master of Business Administration Online What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 9 Utica College MBA in Finance/Accounting MA in Financial Crime and Compliance Management MBA in General MBA in Insurance & Risk Management View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 10 University of the Southwest MBA in Finance MBA in Accounting MBA - Self-Designed View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
