#ThisURL#
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_BS_in_Public_Safety_and_Emergency_Management.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Grand+Canyon+University
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html#degrees
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_Bachelor_of_Arts_in_Christian_Studies_with_an_Emphasis_in_Youth_Ministry.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html#tuitionStartDates
http://study.com/program/grand_canyon_university_ms_in_christian_counseling_of_substance_use_addictive_disorders.html
http://study.com/program/grand_canyon_university_ms_in_christian_counseling.html
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_Doctor_of_Business_Administration_-_Management.html
http://study.com/program/grand_canyon_university_bs_in_educational_studies_does_not_lead_to_teacher_licensure.html
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_Bachelor_of_Arts_in_Christian_Studies_with_an_Emphasis_in_Biblical_Studies.html
#Title#
Grand Canyon University
#Content#
WHY US? School Overview DEGREES & COURSES Grand Canyon University Offers Online flexibility Personal attention Financial aid assistance Online Degrees Tuition & Aid Start Dates Earn Your Degree Faster At Grand Canyon University, you can complete your degree faster with our efficient 4–credit courses. With undergraduate programs that include just 30 courses, or even less if you have transfer credits, and graduate programs with only 8 to 13 courses, you gain the knowledge and skills you need to succeed in your career! What an incredible experience! I just finished my academic portion of my Masters in ED in Elementary Education. What I have learned at GCU and in my practicums amazes me. GCU is an enabler for your future. What a great ride for knowledge and discovery! On to Student teaching in 2 months! — Donn Gallon, College of Education Tuition, Financial Aid & Start Dates Since every student is different, there isn't a "one size fits all" for school information. Start dates and tuition often vary between selected programs, and financial aid opportunities are unique to each student's circumstances. Complete the form to the right to get the most up-to-date and accurate information based on your selected program and circumstances. Still have questions? Complete this form to request more info and get your answers and advice. Discover Grand Canyon University Founded in 1949, Grand Canyon University is Arizona's private university. The prestigious Christian university is regionally accredited and is recognized as offering some of the best online education programs in the nation by noteworthy sources including Fortune Small Business, Technology & Learning Magazine, Fox.com, Online Education Database (OEDb), and more. Grand Canyon University offers online and campus-based bachelor's and master's degree programs through the Colangelo College of Business, College of Education, College of Nursing and Health Care Professions, and College of Humanities and Social Sciences. GCU emphasizes individual attention for both traditional undergraduate students as well as the working professional. I've been a apart of GCU for almost three years. All online, great teaching and great attention to detail. I will achieve everything I set my mind to in this university. Thank you GCU! — Alexis Cruz, College of Humanities and Social Sciences Admission Requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Accreditation Information Grand Canyon University is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association. Find Your Purpose Campus Tour This University Find Your Program: Colangelo College of Business (CCOB) BS in Accounting BS in Applied Management BS in Business Admin. BS in Business Admin. - Business Intelligence BS in Entrepreneurial Studies BS in Finance and Economics BS in Marketing BS in Sports Management Bachelor of Science in Applied Business Analytics Bachelor of Science in Applied Business Information Systems Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management M.B.A. with an Emphasis in Project Management M.B.A. with an Emphasis in Sports Business MBA MBA and MS in Leadership (Dual Degree) MBA and MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems (dual degree) MBA: Accounting MBA: Finance MBA: Health Systems Management MBA: Leadership MBA: Marketing MBA: Strategic Human Resource Management MS in Accounting MS in Leadership MS in Leadership: Disaster Preparedness & Executive Fire Leadership Master of Public Administration - Government and Policy Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Organizational Growth and Sales BS in Public Safety and Emergency Management College of Doctoral Studies The College of Doctoral Studies offers three distinct doctorate degree programs tailored toward the specific interests of our students: the Doctor of Education in Organizational Leadership, Doctor of Business Administration and Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology. Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Behavioral Health Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Christian Ministry Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Higher Education Leadership Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Organizational Development EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Forensic Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Health Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Life Coaching Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Integrating Technology, Learning, and Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Performance Psychology Doctor of Business Administration - Management College of Education As a professional educator, or someone considering education as a profession, you know the importance of education and the role it can play in a student's life. Educators from across the country will tell you that since 1949 Grand Canyon University has maintained a strong reputation as a quality Teacher's College. You can choose from a large variety of educational programs, including TESOL, elementary, secondary, special education, and educational administration. Join thousands of other students enrolled in GCU's cutting edge programs, built to meet the diverse needs of today's classrooms. B.S. in Computer Programming B.S. in Information Technology B.S. in Information Technology with an Emphasis in Cyber Security BS in Early Childhood BS in Educational Studies (Does Not Lead to Teacher Licensure) BS in Elementary Education / Special Education (Dual Major) BS in Elementary Education: English BS in Elementary Education: Math BS in Elementary Education: Science Bachelor of Arts in English for Secondary Education Bachelor of Arts in English with an Emphasis in Professional Writing Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education with an Emphasis in English as a Second Language Bachelor of Science in Math for Secondary Education Bachelor of Science in Sociology with an Emphasis in Social Work Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership in - K-12 Leadership EdS in K-12 Leadership Graduate Certificate of Completion in Elementary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Secondary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) M.A. in Autism Spectrum Disorders M.A. in Reading with an Emphasis in Elementary Education M.A. in Reading with an Emphasis in Secondary Education M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.Ed. in Early Childhood M.Ed. in Educational Administration M.Ed. in Educational Leadership M.Ed. in Elementary Education M.Ed. in Secondary Education M.Ed. in Special Education: Cross-Categorical M.Ed. in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) MA in Curriculum and Instruction MA in Gifted Education MA in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages College of Humanities and Social Sciences B.A. in Advertising and Public Relations with an Emphasis in Advertising Design B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in State and Local Public Policy BA in Communications BA in Digital Film - Production BA in Digital Film - Screenwriting BA in English Literature BA in History BS in Justice Studies BS in Psychology BS in Sociology Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching MS in Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology MS in Psychology: Industrial & Organizational Psychology Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Youth Ministry College of Nursing and Health Care Professions The College of Nursing and Health Sciences at Grand Canyon University has been providing outstanding health care education for over 25 years. The College prides itself on the ability to create degree programs based on the demand for highly qualified health care professionals. The prestigious College of Nursing and Health Sciences is set in an environment that provides extensive hands on training, top quality health care simulations, low student to teacher ratio, and one of the best undergraduate human dissection and anatomy educations in the nation. Whether you are interested in entry into a career in the health care industry, preparation for graduate studies in medicine, or career advancement opportunities, Grand Canyon University has the health care program you need to shape your future. BS in Counseling - Addiction, Chemical Dependency, and Substance Abuse BS in Health Care Administration BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care BS in Nursing (Registered Nurse - R.N. to BSN) Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Family Dynamics Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration M.S. in Nursing: Nursing Education M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Marriage and Family Therapy M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Trauma MBA and MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems (Bridge) MS in Addiction Counseling MS in Health Care Administration MS in Health Care Informatics MS in Nursing with an Emphasis in Leadership in Health Care Systems (Bridge) MS in Nursing: Health Care Informatics MS in Nursing: Health Care Informatics (Bridge) MS in Nursing: Nursing Education MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems MS in Nursing: Public Health MS in Nursing: Public Health (Bridge) MS in Professional Counseling College of Theology Grand Canyon University offers a variety of bachelor's and master's degrees in Christian Studies. These programs help students become global citizens, critical thinkers, effective communicators and responsible leaders by providing an academically challenging, values-based curriculum from the context of a Christian heritage. B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Global Ministry B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Philosophy BA in Christian Studies BA in Christian Studies - Worship Leadership Bachelor of Arts in Advertising and Public Relations with an emphasis in Advertising Design MA in Christian Studies: Christian Leadership MA in Christian Studies: Pastoral Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Youth Ministry MS in Christian Counseling MS in Christian Counseling of Substance Use & Addictive Disorders Master of Divinity Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Global Ministry Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Worship Leadership Get your customized answers Simply complete the form below to get program details, tuition, start dates, financial aid, and how to choose the right program for you. What is your highest level of education? --- Select One --- High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) Country: --- Select One --- United States Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada Chile Egypt Germany Guam Hong Kong Indonesia - Federated States of Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Korea - Democratic People's Rep Kuwait Luxembourg Mexico Netherlands Northern Mariana Islands Oman Puerto Rico Qatar Russian Federation Samoa Saudi Arabia Singapore Spain Switzerland Turkey United Arab Emirates United Kingdom (Great Britain) Virgin Islands - U.S. Postal Code: What program are you interested in? --- Select One --- DBA - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Behavioral Health Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Christian Ministry Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Higher Education Leadership Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Organizational Development Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership in - K-12 Leadership EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education EdS in K-12 Leadership Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Integrating Technology, Learning, and Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Performance Psychology M.A. in Autism Spectrum Disorders M.A. in Reading with an Emphasis in Elementary Education M.A. in Reading with an Emphasis in Secondary Education M.B.A. with an Emphasis in Project Management M.B.A. with an Emphasis in Sports Business M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.Ed. in Early Childhood M.Ed. in Educational Administration M.Ed. in Educational Leadership M.Ed. in Elementary Education M.Ed. in Secondary Education M.Ed. in Special Education: Cross-Categorical M.Ed. in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Christian Counseling M.S. in Christian Counseling of Substance Use and Addictive Disorders M.S. in Nursing: Nursing Education M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Marriage and Family Therapy M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Trauma M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Forensic Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Health Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Life Coaching MA in Christian Studies: Christian Leadership MA in Christian Studies: Pastoral Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Youth Ministry MA in Curriculum and Instruction MA in Gifted Education MA in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MBA MBA and MS in Leadership (Dual Degree) MBA and MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems (Bridge) MBA and MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems (dual degree) MBA: Accounting MBA: Finance MBA: Health Systems Management MBA: Leadership MBA: Marketing MBA: Strategic Human Resource Management MS in Accounting MS in Addiction Counseling MS in Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Health Care Administration MS in Health Care Informatics MS in Leadership MS in Leadership: Disaster Preparedness & Executive Fire Leadership MS in Nursing with an Emphasis in Leadership in Health Care Systems (Bridge) MS in Nursing: Health Care Informatics MS in Nursing: Health Care Informatics (Bridge) MS in Nursing: Nursing Education MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems MS in Nursing: Public Health MS in Nursing: Public Health (Bridge) MS in Professional Counseling MS in Psychology: General Psychology MS in Psychology: Industrial & Organizational Psychology Master of Divinity Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Global Ministry Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Worship Leadership Master of Public Administration - Government and Policy Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Leadership and Entrepreneurship B.A. in Advertising and Public Relations with an Emphasis in Advertising Design B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Global Ministry B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Philosophy B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in State and Local Public Policy B.S. in Computer Programming B.S. in Educational Studies (Does Not Lead to Teacher Licensure) B.S. in Information Technology B.S. in Information Technology with an Emphasis in Cyber Security B.S. in Public Safety and Emergency Management BA in Christian Studies BA in Christian Studies - Worship Leadership BA in Communications BA in Digital Film - Production BA in Digital Film - Screenwriting BA in English Literature BA in History BS in Accounting BS in Applied Management BS in Business Admin. BS in Business Admin. - Business Intelligence BS in Counseling - Addiction, Chemical Dependency, and Substance Abuse BS in Early Childhood BS in Elementary Education / Special Education (Dual Major) BS in Elementary Education: English BS in Elementary Education: Math BS in Elementary Education: Science BS in Entrepreneurial Studies BS in Finance and Economics BS in Health Care Administration BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care BS in Justice Studies BS in Marketing BS in Nursing (Registered Nurse - R.N. to BSN) BS in Psychology BS in Sociology BS in Sports Management Bachelor of Arts in Advertising and Public Relations with an emphasis in Advertising Design Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Youth Ministry Bachelor of Arts in English for Secondary Education Bachelor of Arts in English with an Emphasis in Professional Writing Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History Bachelor of Science in Applied Business Analytics Bachelor of Science in Applied Business Information Systems Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Family Dynamics Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education with an Emphasis in English as a Second Language Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management Bachelor of Science in Math for Secondary Education Bachelor of Science in Sociology with an Emphasis in Social Work Graduate Certificate of Completion in Elementary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching Graduate Certificate of Completion in Secondary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Do you have your Bachelor's degree, and are you certified to teach K - 12? --- Select One --- Yes, I am No, I am not Are you a licensed Health Care Professional with an Associate's Degree? --- Select One --- Yes, I am No, I am not Do you possess a current unencumbered, unrestricted license as a registered nurse in the state where you are employed as an RN? --- Select One --- Yes No Do you have at least 5 years of management/leadership experience? --- Select One --- Yes, I do No, I do not 99% of jobs with a median salary of $75k+ require a Bachelor's Degree or higher. (Source: BLS.gov/ooh) Email: Zip Code: Your Name First Name: Last Name: 94% of college-bound high school students said it was important to communicate with colleges during the search process. (Source: Noel-Levitz 2012 trend study) Contact Information Address: City: State: --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam,US Territory Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virgin Islands Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. You're Almost Done Primary Phone: Don't worry, we value your privacy. Your phone number is not shared with other schools. Secondary Phone: If you only have one phone number, please enter it again here. By submitting this form, I agree to be contacted via email, text, and/or telephone, at the information above using an automated technology, regarding the educational program I selected at Grand Canyon University. This consent is not required to attend Grand Canyon University. Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. For comprehensive consumer information click here GCU Online offers cutting edge curriculum, and you'll be able apply what you learn to your job-immediately. Best of all, your can earn your desired degree in less than two years and graduate with few financial restraints. That's because Grand Canyon University Online has developed an accelerated process for earning your degree while saving you more than 50% off your tuition , when compared to other universities. In addition, other financial options, including financial aid, are available to those who qualify. Grand Canyon University is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association. The accreditation information can be found here. For program disclosure information please click here Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © copyright 2003-2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
