#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/German_Translation_Certificate_Programs_Program_Overview.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/translation_classes.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Communications_and_Journalism/Comparative_Language_Studies_and_Services/Language_Translation.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
German Translation Certificate Programs: Program Overview
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Communications and Journalism  /  Comparative Language Studies and Services  /  Language Translation Communications and Journalism Comparative Language Studies and Services Comparative Literature Linguistics Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Glossary of Certificate Programs  /  Communications and Journalism  /  German Translation Certificate... German Translation Certificate Programs: Program Overview Individuals who are fluent or nearly fluent in German and English may apply to a graduate or professional certificate program in German translation. Students will learn about German and English culture differences, advance their grammar skills and learn vocabulary and expressions that are commonly used in places where translation is necessary, such as medical facilities or international business meetings. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information Certificate programs provide bilingual individuals, working professionals or current graduate students with an education in a niche field. Students are trained to read and write proficiently in German and English and to translate with confidence and accuracy. Graduates of certificate programs are candidates for freelance or salaried work as translators for individuals, companies or public institutions. Many schools offer graduate certificate programs in German translation. Students develop skills in written and conversational German and study German literature. Courses in computer translation software are included in these programs. Advanced skills are emphasized through courses including technical translation, German for business purposes, medical translation and legal translation. Prerequisites: May require a bachelor's degree in German or native fluency in German; prerequisite courses for those who cannot show proficiency in the German language Program Length: Ten or fewer classes Other Requirements: May require internship Certificate in German Translation Students become familiar with different cultural traditions and the countries' medical, legal and commerce systems. They study advanced grammar structures and specialized vocabulary and learn how to translate idioms, sentence structures, reports, research papers and legal documents. They become familiar with computer software that assists in the translation process. If students have any deficiencies, they can remedy them through additional German courses. There will be some required courses, but students can also choose a few electives or independent studies. Some classes that they could enroll include: Introduction to translation Technical and scientific translation German literature translation Cultural factors in translation Translation theory Commercial, legal, news, medical and technological translation Employment Outlook and Salary Information Demand for translators is growing as the world becomes increasingly connected. Multinational businesses, government agencies, hospitals or courtrooms may hire German translators. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reported that the median annual wage for translators was $43,590 in May 2014 (www.bls.gov). Earnings varied according to skill level, difficulty of the assignment and number of available translators for a particular language. According to the BLS projections, employment of translators was predicted to increase 29% between 2014 and 2024. Show me 10 popular schools Related to German Translation Certificate Programs: Program Overview RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Foreign Language Degree Programs and Career Video Dietician and Nutritionist Degree Programs and Career Video Translation Training Translation Degree Translation Classes Translation Certifications Translation Courses Washington Become a Danish Translator: Education and Career Roadmap Learn how to become a Danish translator. Research the job duties and education requirements, and find out how to start a career... Norwegian Translator: Career Information and Education Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a Norwegian translator. Get a quick view of the requirements as well... Louisiana Education and State Information Louisiana has a diverse culture with French, Cajun, German, Hungarian and African-American influences. This state has more than... Undeclared: Translation Studies When it comes to college, one of the most daunting decisions can be selecting your program of study. Especially if you're... Translator: Job Duties & Career Info Medical Certificate Programs Medical Certificate Programs Florida Court Translation Course and Training Program Information Bachelor's Degree in Translation: Program Information Certified Court Interpreter: Certification and Career Information Salary Scale for Biotechnology Majors with a 4-Year Degree Doctorate Programs in Public Health: Distance Learning Options Online Internet Marketing Course and Class Overviews Career Information for a Degree in International Marketing User-Experience Designer: Job Description and Requirements Government Forum Emphasizes the Need to Bring University Research to the Market Should I Major in Chemistry? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test How to Become a Farmer: Education and Career Roadmap Graphic Communications Adult Education Programs Health Unit Coordinator Certification Exam and Licensing Information Medical Assistant Certificate Program Overview Sports Broadcaster Degree Associate of Science Degree in Cardiac Sonography Guitar Amplifier Repair Training and Education Program Information Online Bachelor of Political Science Degree Programs Associate Degree in Womens Health Care Program Info Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Applied Linguistics Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA in Communication MA in Communication - New Media & Marketing Master of Arts in English Bachelor BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in English Language & Literature Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Communications BA in English Literature Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Communication Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 5Indiana Wesleyan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master M.Ed. Reading Bachelor BS Human Communications Get Started with Indiana Wesleyan University What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED 6Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Reading, Literacy, and Assesment Master MS in Management - Communication M.S. in Communication Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MFA in Creative Writing Bachelor Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors BFA in Creative Writing for Entertainment Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 8Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Certificate - English: Comprehensive Skills in Reading & Writing Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 9University of Iowa School Info School locations: Iowa (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Iowa include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Communications and Journalism Communication Studies Comparative Language Studies and Services Comparative Literature Language Translation Linguistics English Composition English Language and Literature Foreign Language and Literature Journalism Get Started with University of Iowa Research University of Iowa's Programs & Degrees 10Baker University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older. Must have high school diploma or GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Strategic Communication Online Get Started with Baker University Education Level Completed: Select One... Completed High School Diploma or GED Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 48 or more Credits (3+ years) of College Bachelor's Degree No High School Diploma or GED Master's Degree Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area American Sign Language - ASL Communication Studies Communication Technology Comparative Language Studies and Services Digital, Radio, and Television Communication English Composition English Language and Literature Foreign Language and Literature Graphic Communications Journalism Public Relations and Advertising Publishing Select your specialty subject area Comparative Literature Language Translation Linguistics What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University BA in Applied Linguistics What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MA in Communication MA in Communication - New Media & Marketing Master of Arts in English BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in English Language & Literature View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 Grand Canyon University BA in Communications BA in English Literature What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Colorado State University Global BS in Communication What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 5 Indiana Wesleyan University M.Ed. Reading BS Human Communications What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED 6 Walden University Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Reading, Literacy, and Assesment MS in Management - Communication M.S. in Communication View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 7 Full Sail University MFA in Creative Writing Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors BFA in Creative Writing for Entertainment View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 8 Penn Foster Career School Certificate - English: Comprehensive Skills in Reading & Writing What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 9 University of Iowa 10 Baker University Bachelor of Science in Strategic Communication Online Education Level Completed: Select One... Completed High School Diploma or GED Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 48 or more Credits (3+ years) of College Bachelor's Degree No High School Diploma or GED Master's Degree Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
