#ThisURL#
http://study.com/videos/How_to_Select_the_Right_School_Video.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/articles/What_Jobs_Can_You_Get_With_an_Art_Major.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/articles/Account_Executives_Job_Description_and_Requirements_for_Becoming_an_Account_Executive.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/foreign-language.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
How to Select the Right School Video
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Video Library  /  College Counseling Videos  /  How to Select the Right School Video How to Select the Right School Video Related Videos Art Therapy Professions Video: Educational Requirements to Be an Art Therapist Art Teacher Video: Educational Requirements and Career Options for Art Teachers The Basic Sections of a Resume Video How to List Your Accomplishments in a Resume Video How to Select the Right School Video Transcript This video gives tips and general advice for selecting the right college or university. Discover the art of selecting the right school and helpful tips to choose, such as visiting the campus of your choice. This video also demonstrates general ways of how not to pick a college, such as blindly selecting a school based on national rankings and following a significant other. How to Select the Right School Video Overview The Right Fit There are probably many colleges that are right for you, so don't obsess about finding the perfect one out of the 3,000 institutes of higher learning in the United States. Visit as many colleges that accept you as possible. Tools to Help Don't choose the college you will attend based on its U.S. News and World Reports ranking. There are many other guidebooks that can help you select a good college that might be a better fit for you other than being highly ranked. One good book on this subject is Colleges that Change Lives by Loren Pope, which tells the story of 40 colleges that impacted students' lives. Advice George S. Bridges, President of Whitman College, said that what matters most in the college selection process is your feeling about a school regarding your interests, passions and awareness of self. It is the interior makeup of students that will determine in large measure the quality of their educational experiences. Former President of NYU, L. Jay Oliva, said that parents often ask him how their sons or daughters should pick the right college. He told them he had no idea, but he did know how not to choose a college. He said not to pick a school by blindly following a high school boyfriend or girlfriend to the college he or she is attending because, more likely than not, that relationship will end before the first semester of college is over. How to Select the Right School Video Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles How The Heidelberg Project Is Transforming Lives Through Art When budgets are tight and something needs to go, the arts are frequently one of the first victims. However, in Detroit, The Heidelberg... Art Critic: Job Description, Duties and Salary Working as an art critic requires significant formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and requirements to see if this is... Art Classes for Non-Artists Perhaps the visual arts excite you, but drawing, painting, sculpting and the like exceed your reach. That's okay! Colleges around the... Careers for Art Majors: Options and Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a photographer, graphic designer or art director. Get a quick view of the... Stay Contemporary on Culture: 10 Top Art World Blogs Want to learn about the latest shows, hottest artists and biggest news and events in the world of arts and culture? Check out these 10... Art School NC Recording Art School Art School Pasadena CA Performing Art School San Antonio Art School 3d Art School Music Video School Careers in Art What Jobs Can You Get With an Art Major? 2D Art and Animation: Coursework Overview Become an Art Librarian: Education and Career Roadmap Diploma in Abstract Art: Program Overview Online Travel Agent Degree Program Information Learn about online travel agent training programs. Get an overview of the program types, requirements and course descriptions available for... Account Executives: Job Description & Requirements Research the educational and skill requirements needed to become an account executive, as well as the job description and employment and... Jobs and Salary Info for a Masters in International Relations Degree Psychologist Vs. Psychiatrist: What's the Difference? Online Carpentry Certificates and Certification Programs Career Information for a Degree in International Marketing Online BS in Criminology: Program Overview Paramedic Schools in Georgia Research paramedic programs in Georgia, which currently has about 26 schools offering programs. Read an overview of degree and certificate... Top School with Bachelors Degree Programs for Becoming a Database Developer - Greenville SC Greenville, South Carolina, only has a few schools with programs in computer science and management. Find the best program for you by... Eeg Technician Human Resources Degree Top College for Learning Human Resource Management - Tulsa OK Top Degree Programs in Computer Science and Information Technology - Fort Wayne Indiana Illinois Teacher Certification Top Construction Management Degree Program - Chicago IL Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 Baker College Online Doctorate in Business Administration MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management BS in Psychology BS in Criminal Justice BBA (Accelerated Program) BS in Computer Science BS in Mobile Application Software Engineering BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Associate of Business Administration AAS in Computer Programming Associate of Business in Accounting AAS Information Technology (IT Support Specialist) Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Project Management and Planning When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 7 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Penn Foster High School Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry View more What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 9 University of Delaware M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Show more schools… Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
