#ThisURL#
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/licensing-for-military-members-and-spouses/
#SubURL#
https://youtu.be/rlyD6szHe7Y
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/help-center/
http://www.myflorida.com/myflorida/privacy.html
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/licensing-for-military-members-and-spouses/
http://ww2.doh.state.fl.us/IRM00PRAES/PRASLIST.ASP
http://www.floridahealth.gov/licensing-and-regulation/enforcement/index.html
http://floridasosteopathicmedicine.gov/licensing/
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/renewals/
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/help-center/#contact
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/
http://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/
http://www.fdva.org/saa/LiCert.asp
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/renewals
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/the-board/
https://ww2.doh.state.fl.us/mqaservices/login.asp?mult=&pass=Y
http://flboardofmedicine.gov/licensing/
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/renewals/continuing-education-ce/
http://www.floridashealth.gov
http://www.workforceflorida.com
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/licensing/
http://www.floridahealth.gov/licensing-and-regulation/background-screening/livescan-service-providers.html
http://floridasrespiratorycare.gov/sitemap/
http://www.floridahealth.gov/licensing-and-regulation/armed-forces/index.html
http://www.floridajobs.org
mailto:info@floridasrespiratorycare.gov
http://www.floridahealth.gov/licensing-and-regulation/armed-forces/veterans/index.html
https://mqawebsupport.wufoo.com/forms/mcoffmk0shmdix/
http://www.floridahealth.gov/licensing-and-regulation/armed-forces/_documents/military-veteran-fee-waiver-form.pdf
http://mqawebteam.com/veteran-heroes/
https://ww2.doh.state.fl.us/DOHInitialApp/login.aspx
http://www.floridavets.org
http://www.eflorida.com
http://www.floridahealth.gov/disclaimer.html
http://www.floridahealth.gov/licensing-and-regulation/armed-forces/_documents/app-temp-lic-military-spouses.pdf
http://www.floridahealth.gov/email-advisory.html
#Title#
Florida Board of Respiratory Care » Licensing for Military Members and Spouses - Licensing, Renewals & Information
#Content#
Florida Board of Respiratory Care Search Posts, Pages & FAQs: FAQs Contact Sitemap Friday, April 15th, 2016 Home Licensing Renewals Resources Meetings The Board Licensing for Military Members and Spouses To All Military Members and Families, The Florida Department of Health is committed to honoring veterans, members of the military and their families. We are sensitive to the many challenges active duty military families face when required by service to relocate. One challenge you should not face is obtaining a health care license to practice your profession. Florida now offers the VALOR System: Veterans Application for Licensure Online Response System. This exciting new system provides an expedited licensing avenue for honorably discharged veterans with an active license in another state, with most licensing fees waived.  It also provides an expedited temporary certificate to practice in an area of critical need. The Florida VALOR System is offered in addition to two existing licensing options to assist active duty members and veterans of the Armed Forces, and their spouses. The first option provides exemptions from license renewal requirements while serving on active duty; the second provides temporary license privileges for spouses of active duty members of the Armed Forces. Additionally, a waiver of licensing fees is available for honorably discharged military veterans and their spouses. As a former Colonel in the U.S. Army Medical Corps, I know firsthand the sacrifices you make on behalf of our country. We will do everything within our power to make your licensure experience one that reflects our gratitude for your service. Sincerely, John H. Armstrong, MD, FACS State Surgeon General State Surgeon General John H. Armstrong Military on Active Duty Florida Veterans Application for Licensure Online Response System (VALOR) *New* If you are a military veteran seeking licensure in a health care profession, Florida now offers expedited licensure processing. In order to qualify, you must apply for the license six months before or six months after your honorable discharge from the United States Armed Forces. There is no application fee, licensure fee, or unlicensed activity fee for veterans who qualify for this type of licensure. To apply, access Florida’s VALOR registration system below: VALOR  Temporary Certificate to Practice in an Area of Critical Need If you are an active duty member or military veteran who served at least ten years in the United States Armed Forces, you may be eligible to practice in an area of critical need. This certificate limits a physician’s practice to designated areas of critical need, and is only available to physicians who have a license in another jurisdiction of the United States. There is no application fee or licensure fee for physicians seeking this certificate. This certificate is limited to physicians who will not receive compensation for their service. To apply for a temporary certificate to practice in an area of critical need, please visit the appropriate board website listed below and follow the application instructions: Medical Doctor Osteopathic Physician Renewal Exemption If you are an active duty member of the Armed Forces of the United States and you hold a Florida license as a health care practitioner that is in good standing and you were entitled to practice or engage in your profession prior to you joining the Armed Forces, you may be eligible for exemption from certain licensure requirements. If exempt, you would not be required to renew your license, pay license renewal fees, update your address, or perform any other licensure maintenance act. The exemption extends the duration of your active duty service and for a period of six months after discharge. This license does not permit you to practice your profession in the private sector for profit. To receive an exemption from the renewal requirements,  mail a copy of your orders which provides the beginning and end date of your current enlistment to: Department of Health Division of Medical Quality Assurance 4052 Bald Cypress Way, Bin C-10 Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3260 If you are a Commissioned Officer, you may provide a letter from your commanding officer that reflects the length of your contract with a beginning and end date to fulfill this requirement. Upon return to civilian life, you will be asked to submit a copy of your DD-214 form to the Department to change your license status from a Military Active status license to a Clear Active status license. Veterans Florida Veterans Application for Licensure Online Response System (VALOR) *New* If you are a military veteran seeking licensure in a health care profession, Florida now offers expedited licensure processing. In order to qualify, you must apply for the license six months before or six months after your honorable discharge from the United States Armed Forces. There is no application fee, licensure fee, or unlicensed activity fee for veterans who qualify for this type of licensure. To apply, access Florida’s VALOR registration system below: VALOR Military Veteran Fee Waiver If you are a military veteran, you may be eligible for a waiver of the initial application and licensure fees for all health care professions. Your application must be submitted within 60 months after your honorable discharge from any branch of the United States Armed Forces. General Information The initial license fee, initial application fee, and initial unlicensed activity fee will be waived for veterans returning from service, provided that the veteran applies for licensure within 60 months of being honorably discharged. This waiver does not include examination fees. Application Requirements The applicant must have served in a branch of the United States Armed Forces The applicant must have been honorably discharged in the past 60 months prior to the date of application The applicant must provide a DD-214 or NGB-22 form as proof of honorable discharge The Military Veteran Fee Waiver Request must be submitted with your application for licensure How to Apply Apply for your license and waiver online OR Complete the Military Veteran Fee Waiver Request Form andand mail your completed application, documentation, and application for licensure to: Department of Health Division of Medical Quality Assurance P.O. Box 6330 Tallahassee, Florida 32314-6330 Reimbursement for Veterans’ Professional Examination Costs The Florida Department of Veterans’ Affairs will reimburse eligible applicants for the cost of licensing and certification examinations, not to exceed $2,000 per test. These licensing and certification examinations must be generally deemed necessary to pursue a trade or profession. Please see http://www.fdva.org/saa/LiCert.asp for potential reimbursement for examination cost(s). Military Spouses Initial Licensure Fee Waiver *New* If you are a spouse of a military veteran, you may be eligible for a waiver of the initial application and licensure fees for all health care professions. The application must be submitted within 60 months after your spouse’s honorable discharge from any branch of the United States Armed Forces. General Information The initial license fee, initial application fee, and initial unlicensed activity fee will be waived for a military veterans spouse at the time of discharge, provided the spouse applies for licensure within 60 months after the veteran is discharged from any branch of the United States Armed Forces. This waiver does not include examination fees. Application Requirements The applicant must be the spouse of a military veteran at the time of discharge The applicant’s spouse must have been honorably discharged in the past 60 months prior to the date of application The applicant must provide a copy of the spouse’s DD-214 or NGB-22 form as proof of their honorable discharge The Military Veteran Fee Waiver Request must be submitted with the application for licensure How to Apply Apply for your license and waiver online OR Complete the Military Veteran Fee Waiver Request Form (pdf) and mail your completed application, documentation, and application for licensure to: Department of Health Division of Medical Quality Assurance P.O. Box 6330 Tallahassee, Florida 32314-6330 Temporary License for Military Spouse  Valid for one year: Non-renewable As a spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces of the United States you may be issued a temporary license to practice your health care profession in Florida. The purpose of s. 456.024(3), Florida Statutes, is to allow the spouse of an active duty military member that is assigned to a duty station in Florida the opportunity to work in his/her respective profession. If the spouse desires to practice beyond the expiration of the “temporary license,” the Department recommends beginning the regular licensing application process as soon as possible. A temporary military spouse license is valid for one year. To qualify for a temporary license, your spouse must be on active duty and assigned to a duty station in Florida and you must hold a valid license as a health care professional in another state, the District of Columbia, any United States territory or possession. Application Requirements: Download a printable application Pay required fees as indicated on the application Proof of marriage to an active duty member of the Armed Forces – a copy of your military dependent ID card can serve as proof. Proof of the spouse’s active duty assignment in Florida  – a copy of your spouse’s military orders that reflect an active duty assignment in Florida Proof of current and valid licensure to practice the desired profession in another state National Practitioner Data Bank Report Effective January 1, 2013, applicants for initial licensure must use a LiveScan service provider to submit a set of fingerprints to the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) for the purpose of conducting a search for any Florida and national criminal history records that may pertain to applicants. The results of the search will be returned to the Care Provider Background Screening Clearinghouse and made available to the Department for consideration during the licensure process.  FDLE and the Clearinghouse will retain the fingerprints submitted by the applicant. All costs for conducting a criminal history background screening are borne by the applicant. It is important to use the correct Originating Agency Identification (ORI) when submitting fingerprints. If you do not provide an ORI number or if you provide an incorrect ORI number to the service provider, the board office will not receive your fingerprint results, so it is extremely important to use the correct ORI when having your fingerprints scanned. Applicants can use any FDLE approved LiveScan service provider to submit their fingerprints. The applicant is fully responsible for selecting the service provider and ensuring the results are reported to the Department.  If you are applying for initial licensure after December 15, 2012, you must print this form (pdf) and take it with you to a Livescan service provider. For more information, FAQs, and a list of all approved Livescan service providers please visit the Department’s website. Proof the applicant is otherwise qualified to receive a full license in the profession or is eligible to take the Florida licensure examination for that profession.  To demonstrate eligibility the applicant must complete the full licensure application for the profession and submit all supporting documentation required by that application (with the exception of fees or other documentation that may be duplicative).  The full licensure application may be obtained by using the dropdown list above. Renewal Exemption A spouse of an active duty member of the Armed Forces of the United States may be exempt from all license renewal requirements as long as the licensee is absent from the state because of his/her spouse’s active duty assignment. To receive an exemption from the renewal requirements, mail a copy of your spouse’s orders which provides the beginning and end date of their current enlistment to: Department of Health Division of Medical Quality Assurance 4052 Bald Cypress Way, Bin C-10 Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3260 If your spouse is a Commissioned Officer, you may provide a letter from his/her commanding officer that reflects the length of their contract with a beginning and end date to fulfill this requirement. Upon your spouse returning to civilian life, you will be asked to submit a copy of their DD-214 form to department to change your license status from a Military Active status license to a Clear Active status license. For more information on these provisions, please call the department’s Customer Contact Center at (850) 488-0595. More Helpful Links Military personnel, military spouses, and veterans of our armed services can find additional helpful information at: Florida Department of Economic Opportunity Florida Department of Veterans Affairs Workforce Florida Enterprise Florida Florida Department of Business and Professional Regulation Florida Veteran Health Heroes The Florida Department of Health honors and supports veterans, members of the military and their families on Veterans Day.  More than 1.5 million veterans call Florida home, many of whom have served during wartime. In recognition of Florida’s veteran health care practitioners the Department has released a special Veterans Day message along with this year’s “Florida Veteran Health Heroes.” The 2015 Florida Veteran Health Heroes are Major General of the Florida National Guard Michael Calhoun, R. Ph., former State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Harry Frank Farmer Jr., MD, Maureen Daniels-Tremel, ARNP, the late Jeanne Grushinski-Rubin, RN and Daniel Bower, DMD. For more information about these exceptional individuals, please visit Florida Veteran Health Heroes. Florida seeks to become the most veteran-friendly state in the nation, launching the VALOR (Veterans Application for Licensure Online Response) System on July 1, 2014 to expedite licensing for military veterans. The state also extended fee waiver eligibility for health care practitioner licenses to 60 months after honorable discharge and included military spouses. Learn more about how military members and spouses can obtain health care licensing by visiting the Department’s Armed Forces Licensing webpage. ApplyApply for a License RenewRenew a License StatusCheck Application Status LookupVerify a License ComplaintsFile a Complaint Customer Contact Center (850) 488-0595 Email Support info@floridasrespiratorycare.gov Licensing Home Renewals Resources Meetings The Board FAQs Contact Florida Board of Respiratory Care Copyright © 2016. Florida Department of Health Page Modified: March 10, 2016 at 4:37 pm Disclaimer | Email Advisory | Privacy Statement
