#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Is_Studying_History_Still_Important.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Military_Studies.html
http://study.com/top_colleges_for_a_history_major.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/articles/Online_PhD_Programs_in_Integrative_Medicine.html
http://study.com/articles/Fashion_Designer_Educational_Requirements_for_a_Design_Career_in_Fashion.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Social_Studies_and_History/Public_History_and_Archival_Administration.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Is Studying History Still Important?
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Social Studies and History Liberal Arts and Humanities American History Ancient Studies Asian History Classical Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies Cultural Resource Management European History Historic Preservation History of Science and Technology Holocaust Studies Medieval and Renaissance Studies Museum Studies Public History and Archival Administration Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Education Insider News Blog  /  College  /  September 2011  /  Is Studying History Still Important? Is Studying History Still Important? Sep 09, 2011 History has long been a typical part of any student's list of required courses throughout their school years. But does this class still deserve a spot in core curriculums? View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools By Jessica Lyons Lessons Not Learned According to 'The Nation's Report Card: U.S. History 2010,' which was released by the National Assessment of Educational Progress, of the about 29,000 fourth, eighth and 12th grade students surveyed, fewer than 25% were 'at or above the proficient level in 2010.' According to a July 28, 2011 CNN article, some educators feel this low percentage could be the result of students simply not being interested in the subject. Students always want to know how the class material will actually help them after they're out of school, and if they see history as a subject that won't be of any use to them it can make it difficult to capture their interest. Additionally, CNN notes, history may not be made as much of a priority as other subjects since it is not part of the No Child Left Behind (NCLB) testing. Because of the emphasis placed on NCLB, teachers might feel pressure to make sure students are doing their best in the subjects that will be part of the test. Since history isn't on the test, teachers could be spending less time on it so that they can instead focus on other areas. Why Students Need to Know History There are several reasons why history is an important part of any student's education. First of all, it helps to show how we've gotten to where we are and can help create a sense of appreciation for what we have. Students can also develop a greater sense of community and pride in where they live. It might even make them better and more informed citizens as they hear about how people throughout history have made positive impacts on the world. Students who understand history could also benefit from being able to learn from the past. It's been said many times that it's important to learn from our mistakes, and we can also learn a great deal from the mistakes of our ancestors. For example, learning about World War II and the Holocaust shows what can happen when hatred is left unchecked. Students could be able to use what they've learned in history to help make sure past mistakes aren't repeated. Careers Related to History One reason why some students may feel they don't need to worry about history is because it won't help them while they're in the working world. But that's not necessarily the case, since there are many history-related careers for students with a passion for the subject. Of course, two of the obvious options would be as a history teacher or as a historian. In both of these professions, individuals have a chance to help preserve history and pass it on to future generations. Other positions where a history background could come into play are as an archivist, researcher or writer. Do you like learning about the past? Then be sure to check out these ten top history blogs. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Is Studying History Still Important? RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Academic and Career Options for History Majors Video Paralegal Studies Career Video: Becoming a Paralegal Online History Courses Ancient History Courses Graduate Programs History Top Colleges for a History Major History Phd Programs Campus Events that Shaped History For better or worse, college campuses have been the locations of some major historical events that continue to shape the world.... The USGenWeb Census Project Is Rewriting History The goal of the USGenWeb Project, which began in 1997, is to transcribe and upload every U.S. Federal Census into the USGenWeb... History Re-Imagined: Great New Reads in Historical Fiction What was it like to live with the Brönte family? Who was the real Catherine de Medici behind the crown? How did women live in... Learn History in the Blogosphere: 10 Top History Blogs Whether you're gaga for the Greeks, fascinated by the Far East or simply excited about the many twists and turns of human... Career Options for a History Major Best Graduate History Programs History Phd Online What Can You Do With a PhD in History? What Can You Do With a Masters in History? Study Shows 'Millennials' May Be the Most Educated Generation in History Online PhD Programs in Integrative Medicine Fashion Designer: Education Requirements & Career Info How to Become a Bank Branch Manager: Education and Career Roadmap Learning Tips for Visual Learners in Distance Education Programs Study Civil Rights History: Course and Program Overviews Careers for Music History Majors: Job Options and Descriptions Landscape Design Training Program Overview Become a Military Doctor: Step-by-Step Career Guide Web Designer: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Top Landscape Architecture Masters and Graduate Programs School List Masters Degree Public Administration New York Online Horticulture Degree Programs Curriculum Overview How to Become a Licensed Occupational Therapist How to Become a Calibration Engineer Education and Career Roadmap Hollywood, California (CA) Colleges Top Culinary Arts Program - Tampa FL Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA in History MA in History - American History MA in History - Public History MA in History - Military History Bachelor BA in History - American History BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Military History BA in History - Middle Eastern History BA General Studies Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in History Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of General Studies Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 5Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 6Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Professional and Liberal Studies Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 7Norwich University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Arts in History Online Master of Arts in Military History Online Get Started with Norwich University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 8San Francisco State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Francisco State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Museum Studies Get Started with San Francisco State University Research San Francisco State University's Programs & Degrees 9Stanford University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Stanford University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Get Started with Stanford University Research Stanford University's Degree Programs 10San Jose State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Jose State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Get Started with San Jose State University Research San Jose State University's Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Select your specialty subject area American History Ancient Studies Asian History Classical Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies Cultural Resource Management European History Historic Preservation History of Science and Technology Holocaust Studies Medieval and Renaissance Studies Museum Studies Public History and Archival Administration What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University MA in History MA in History - American History MA in History - Public History MA in History - Military History BA in History - American History BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Military History BA in History - Middle Eastern History BA General Studies View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Ashford University BA in History What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Grand Canyon University Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Baker College Online Bachelor of General Studies When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 5 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 6 Saint Joseph's University BS in Professional and Liberal Studies During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 7 Norwich University Master of Arts in History Online Master of Arts in Military History Online What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 8 San Francisco State University 9 Stanford University 10 San Jose State University Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
