#ThisURL#
http://www.philosophypages.com/ph/index.htm
#SubURL#
http://www.philosophypages.com/ph/moor.htm
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/d9.htm#durk
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/m2.htm#marcuse
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/m.htm#mcta
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/l9.htm#lucr
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/g.htm#gers
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/e.htm#eco
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/b5.htm#boed
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/n.htm#nage
http://www.philosophypages.com/dy/x.htm#xenp
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
http://www.britannica.com/
#Title#
Assembled Philosophers
#Content#
Philosophy Pages     Dictionary    Study Guide  Logic   F A Q s   History Timeline Philosophers   Locke   Assembled Western philosophers:   Anselm of Canterbury   Thomas Aquinas   Aristotle   Augustine   J. L. Austin   Pierre Bayle   Simone de Beauvoir   Gustav Bergmann   George Berkeley   René Descartes   John Dewey   Epictetus   Epicurus   Georg W. F. Hegel   Martin Heidegger   Thomas Hobbes   David Hume   William James   Immanuel Kant   Søren Kierkegaard   Gottfried W. Leibniz   John Locke   Niccolo Machiavelli   Catharine MacKinnon   Karl Marx   John Stuart Mill   G. E. Moore   Friedrich Nietzsche   Charles Sanders Peirce   Plato   W. V. O. Quine   Jean-Jacques Rousseau   Bertrand Russell   Gilbert Ryle   Jean-Paul Sartre   Socrates   Baruch Spinoza   Ludwig Wittgenstein   Mary Wollstonecraft Please note that links to on-line editions of the works of these philosophers, along with the additional on-line resources, will appear in a second browser window. Everyone appears chronologically in the Philosophy Timeline, along with the following additional thinkers from the Dictionary of Philosophical Terms and Names: Peter Abelard Jane Addams Alfred Adler Theodor Adorno Albert the Great Samuel Alexander Louis Althusser Anaxagoras Anaximander Anaximenes G.E.M. Anscombe Susan B. Anthony Antisthenes Kwame Anthony Appiah Archimedes Hannah Arendt Aristippus D.M. Armstrong Antoine Arnauld Kenneth Arrow John Austin A. J. Ayer Charles Babbage Gaston Bachelard Francis Bacon Roger Bacon Annette Baier Kurt Baier Mikhail Bakunin Thomas Bayes Jeremy Bentham Nicolai Berdyaev Henri Bergson Isaiah Berlin Brand Blanshard Boethius Boetius of Dacia Niels Bohr Bernard Bolzano Bonaventure George Boole Susan Bordo Bernard Bosanquet Robert Boyle F. H. Bradley Franz Brentano C. D. Broad Giordano Bruno Martin Buber Jean Buridan Edmund Burke Joseph Butler Edward Caird Albert Camus Georg Cantor Rudolf Carnap Carneades Lewis Carroll Ernst Cassirer Margaret Cavendish Pierre Charron Roderick Chisholm Noam Chomsky Chrysippus Alonzo Church Cicero Hélène Cixous Samuel Clarke W. K. Clifford Catherine Cockburn R.G. Collingwood Auguste Comte Étienne de Condillac Anne Conway Nicolas Copernicus Géraud de Cordemoy Hasdai Crescas Benedetto Croce Ralph Cudworth Richard Cumberland Nicolas of Cusa Jean d'Alembert Mary Daly Charles Darwin Donald Davidson Dorothy Day Richard Dedekind Gilles Deleuze Democritus Augustus DeMorgan Daniel Dennett Jacques Derrida Baron d'Holbach Denis Diderot Wilhelm Dilthey Diogenes W.E.B. Dubois Pierre Duhem Michael Dummett Émile Durkheim Ronald Dworkin Meister Eckhart Umberto Eco Albert Einstein Elizabeth of Bohemia Ralph Waldo Emerson Empedocles Friedrich Engels Desiderius Erasmus Eratosthenes John Scotus Erigena Euclid Leonhard Euler al-Farabi Herbert Feigl Pierre de Fermat Ludwig Feuerbach Paul Feyerabend Richard Feynman Fibonacci Johann Fichte Marsillio Ficino Robert Filmer Michel Foucault Simon Foucher Joseph Fourier Gottlob Frege Sigmund Freud Margaret Fuller H.-G. Gadamer Galileo Galilei Mahatma Gandhi Pierre Gassendi C. F. Gauss John Gay Gersonides Edmund Gettier Arnold Geulincx al-Ghazali Carol Gilligan Charlotte Perkins Gilman Joseph Glanvill Kurt Gödel William Godwin Emma Goldman Nelson Goodman Antonio Gramsci T.H. Green Paul Grice Robert Grosseteste Hugo Grotius Jürgen Habermas William Hamilton Stuart Hampshire Donna Haraway Sandra Harding R.M. Hare H.L.A. Hart David Hartley Nicolai Hartmann Friedrich Hayek Werner Heisenberg Virginia Held Helvetius Carl Hempel Heraclitus Herbert of Cherbury David Hilbert Hippias Sarah Lucia Hoagland Douglas Hofstadter bell hooks Grace Hopper Max Horkheimer Karen Horney Edmund Husserl Francis Hutcheson Hypatia Ibn Daud Ibn Gabirol Ibn Rushd Ibn Sina Roman Ingarden Luce Irigaray Karl Jaspers Thomas Jefferson C. G. Jung Hans Kelsen Garth Kemerling Johannes Kepler John Maynard Keynes Jaegwon Kim al-Kindi Martin Luther King, Jr. Saul Kripke Julia Kristeva Queen Kristina Thomas Kuhn Jacques Lacan Imre Lakatos Jean-Baptiste Lamarck Julien La Mettrie Susanne Langer P. S. de Laplace Michèle Le Dœuff Keith Lehrer V. I. Lenin G. E. Lessing Leucippus C. I. Lewis N.I. Lobachevsky Peter Lombard Konrad Lorenz Rudolf Hermann Lotze A.O. Lovejoy Lucretius Gyorgy Lukacs Jan Lukasiewicz Rosa Luxemburg J.-F. Lyotard Ernst Mach J.M.E. McTaggart Moses Maimonides Nicolas Malebranche Thomas Malthus Benoit Mandelbrot Bernard Mandeville Mao Zedong Gabriel Marcel Marcus Aurelius Herbert Marcuse Jacques Maritain Marsilius of Padua Damaris Masham George Herbert Mead Alexius Meinong Gregor Mendel Moses Mendelssohn Maurice Merleau-Ponty Marin Mersenne Mary Midgley James Mill Marvin Minsky Michel de Montaigne Baron de la Montesquieu Henry More Thomas More Ernest Nagel Thomas Nagel Otto Neurath Isaac Newton Pierre Nicole Nel Noddings John Norris Robert Nozick Martha Nussbaum William of Ockham José Ortega y Gasset Rudolf Otto Thomas Paine William Paley Paracelsus Vilfredo Pareto Parmenides Blaise Pascal Giuseppe Peano Ralph Barton Perry Philo Judaeus Pico della Mirandola Max Planck Plotinus Jules Henri Poincare George Polya Karl Popper Porphyry H.H. Price Richard Price H.A. Prichard Protagoras P.-J. Proudhon Samuel Pufendorf Hilary Putnam Pyrrho of Elis Pythagoras Frank Ramsey Petrus Ramus Ayn Rand John Rawls Tom Regan Pierre Régis Hans Reichenbach Thomas Reid Paul Ricouer Bernhard Riemann David George Ritchie Jacques Rohault Richard Rorty W.D. Ross Josiah Royce Sara Ruddick Gaon Saadiah Comte de Saint-Simon George Santayana Ferdinand de Saussure F.W.J. von Schelling Friedrich Schiller Friedrich Schleiermacher Moritz Schlick Arthur Schopenhauer Erwin Schrödinger John Duns Scotus John Searle Wilfrid Sellars Seneca Seth Pringle-Pattison Sextus Empiricus Shaftesbury Henry Sidgwick Siger of Brabant Peter Singer B.F. Skinner J.J.C. Smart Adam Smith Madeleine de Souvré Herbert Spencer Madame de Staël Elizabeth Cady Stanton C.L. Stevenson Dugald Stewart P.F. Strawson Francisco Suarez Alfred Tarski Harriet Taylor Teresa of Avila Thales Judith Jarvis Thomson H.D. Thoreau Paul Tillich Timon of Philius John Toland Leon Trotsky Sojourner Truth Alan Turing Miguel de Unamuno Hans Vaihinger Lorenzo Valla Thorsten Veblen John Venn Giambattista Vico Voltaire John von Neumann Friedrich Waismann J. B. Watson Max Weber Simone Weil Cornel West Richard Whately William Whewell Alfred North Whitehead Edward O. Wilson John Cook Wilson John Wisdom Christian Wolff Xenocrates Xenophanes Xenophon Zeno of Citium Zeno of Elea Ernest Zermelo The Philosophy Pages by Garth Kemerling are licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. Permissions beyond the scope of this license may be available at http://www.philosophypages.com/referral/contact.htm. ©1997, 2011 Garth Kemerling. Last modified 12 November 2011. Questions, comments, and suggestions may be sent to: the Contact Page.
