#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/creating-interpreting-scatterplots-process-examples-quiz.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/creating-interpreting-scatterplots-process-examples-quiz.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/academy/course/praxis-ii-mathematics-practice-and-study-guide.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/login.html?cta=bumper
http://study.com/academy/course/texes-physics-mathematics-8-12-practice-and-study-guide.html
http://study.com/academy/course/developmental-college-statistics.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/how-to-graph-reflections-across-axes-the-origin-and-line-y-x.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/creating-interpreting-scatterplots-process-examples-quiz.html&width=100&
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Creating & Interpreting Scatterplots: Process & Examples - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: Creating & Interpreting Scatterplots: Process & Examples Scatterplots are a great visual representation of two sets of data. In this lesson, you will learn how to interpret bivariate data to create scatterplots and understand the relationship between the two variables.  Statistics 101: Principles of Statistics  /  Math Courses Course Navigator Simple Linear Regression: Definition, Formula & ExamplesNext Lesson  Creating & Interpreting Scatterplots: Process & Examples Chapter 8 /  Lesson 1   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Process for Creating & Interpreting Scatterplots Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: Simple Linear Regression: Definition, Formula & Examples 0:01 Scatterplots Explained 0:38 Understanding Scatterplots 2:04 Creating Scatterplots 5:12 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 3,601 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses Scatterplot and Correlation: Definition, Example & Analysis Frequency & Relative Frequency Tables: Definition & Examples How to Identify Similar Triangles Transformations in Math: Definition & Graph What is Translation in Math? - Definition, Examples, & Terms What is a Two-Way Table? Angles Formed by a Transversal Properties of Congruent and Similar Shapes Volume of Cylinders, Cones, and Spheres Rotations in Math: Definition & Overview Skewed Distribution: Examples & Definition Reading and Interpreting Line Graphs What is Slope? - Definition & Formulas Applying Quadratic Functions to Motion Under Gravity & Simple Optimization Problems Identify Where a Function is Linear, Increasing or Decreasing, Positive or Negative Descriptive & Inferential Statistics: Definition, Differences & Examples How to Graph Reflections Across Axes, the Origin, and Line Y=X Point of View: First, Second & Third Person Creating & Interpreting Dot Plots: Process & Examples How to Write a Linear Equation Math 101: College Algebra Math 104: Calculus Business Calculus: Help & Review TExES Physics/Mathematics 7-12: Practice & Study Guide Developmental College Statistics Contemporary Math Remediation Supplemental Math: Study Aid High School Algebra I: Help and Review High School Algebra I: Homework Help Resource High School Precalculus: Homework Help Resource Holt McDougal Algebra 2: Online Textbook Help AP Calculus AB & BC: Help and Review Praxis Mathematics: Practice and Study Guide GED Math: Tutoring Solution High School Algebra I: Tutoring Solution Prentice Hall Geometry: Online Textbook Help College Preparatory Mathematics: Help and Review AP Calculus AB & BC: Homework Help Resource ACT Math Prep: Review & Practice Prentice Hall Algebra 2: Online Textbook Help Lesson Transcript Instructor: Cathryn Jackson Cat has taught a variety of subjects primarily in Communication, Mathematics, and Technology. Cat has a Master's degree in Education and is currently working on her Ph. D. Scatterplots are a great visual representation of two sets of data. In this lesson, you will learn how to interpret bivariate data to create scatterplots and understand the relationship between the two variables. Scatterplots Explained Liam is a soccer player getting ready to try out for his varsity high school team. Each night he will scrimmage with a different group of players. Liam tracks his practice time during the day and the number of goals he makes each night. Liam wonders if there is a way to visually display this information and to analyze the relationship between the number of hours he practices and the number of goals he makes. Liam can do this by creating a scatterplot. A scatterplot is a graph of ordered pairs showing a relationship between two sets of data. In this lesson, you will learn how to interpret bivariate data to create scatterplots. Understanding Scatterplots When creating a scatterplot you will be looking at two sets of data. This data is known as bivariate data, which are two sets of variables that can change and are compared to find relationships. Take a look at this graph. Notice that there is an x-axis (the horizontal line in a graph) and a y-axis (the vertical line in a graph). Each point on this graph is called an ordered pair, which is two numbers that indicate a location on the coordinate plane. The first number is the location on the x-axis, and the second number is the location on the y-axis. This graph represents the relationship between the number of hours Liam practiced and the number of goals he made each night during the scrimmage. This is called a correlation, which is the relationship between two variables or sets of data. Notice that the more hours Liam spends practicing, the more goals he makes that night. Each ordered pair is the number of practice hours and the number of goals. This ordered pair represents the number of hours Liam spent practicing on Tuesday and the number of goals he made Tuesday night. When you are creating a scatterplot, each set of variables must have something in common. In this case, the variables have Liam and the day Liam practiced in common. We can't create an ordered pair out of someone else's practice hours and Liam's number of goals. They don't have anything in common! Creating Scatterplots Ideally, when you create a scatterplot, you want to identify the independent and dependent variables in the scenario. An independent variable is a condition or piece of data in an experiment that can be controlled or changed. In this case, the independent variable would be the number of hours Liam spent practicing. Liam has total control over his practice time. A dependent variable is a condition or piece of data in an experiment that is controlled or influenced by an outside factor, most often the independent variable. In this case, the dependent variable would be the number of goals that Liam makes during the game. Now, you could make the argument that Liam has control over the number of goals he makes and therefore the goals would also be an independent variable, and this is true. However, Liam can't simply make a wish to improve his performance, right? He has to practice to get better! Therefore, the only way Liam can control his performance and make it better is to increase his practice time, and that is where we get the relationship between the independent and dependent variables. Make sure, that when you are creating a scatterplot, to put the independent variable on the x-axis and the dependent variable on the y-axis. To create a scatterplot, you want to take a close look at your two sets of data. Liam is now tracking two different sets of data: his practice time and his endurance. He wants to see how long he can run each night after practicing in the morning. Take a look at the table Liam has created. Can we make a scatterplot from this data? Absolutely! First, create ordered pairs from the two variables. In this case, we want to put the practice hours on the x-axis and the endurance time on the y-axis. Therefore, the first set of numbers, 2 and 10, would make up our first pair and so on and so forth. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Next, plot each point on your graph. This will show if there is a correlation between your two variables. If the points seem to move in the same direction and are close together, then they likely will have a correlation. Notice that most of the points increase both vertically and horizontally. When a bivariate data set shows an overall increase in numbers like this, it is called a positive correlation, where the dependent variables and independent variables in a data set increase together. If the numbers sloped downward, like the bivariate data in this graph, then you have a data set with a negative correlation, where the dependent variables and independent variables in a data set decrease together. If there is no relationship between the numbers, as shown in this graph, then the data set has no correlation. We will talk about this more in later chapters, so be sure to check out the other lessons in this chapter! Lesson Summary A scatterplot is a graph of ordered pairs showing a relationship between two sets of data. When creating a scatterplot you will have two sets of information, known as bivariate data, which is two sets of variables that can change and are compared to find relationships. Each point on this graph is called an ordered pair, which is two numbers that indicate a location on the coordinate plane. The first number is the location on the x-axis, and the second number is the location on the y-axis. To create a scatterplot, first create ordered pairs from the two variables. Put the independent variable on the x-axis and the dependent variable on the y-axis. Next, plot each point on your graph. This will show if there is a correlation between your two variables. If the points seem to move in the same direction and are close together, then they likely will have a correlation. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the Statistics 101: Principles of Statistics page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Court Interpreting Classes and Courses Overview Become a Spanish Interpreter: Education and Career Roadmap Colleges for Aspiring ASL Interpreters: How to Choose Online Interpreter Certification and Certificate Programs Language Interpreter Employment Information Linguist: Job Duties, Description and Requirements How to Become a Legal Interpreter: Step-by-Step Career Guide Become an Albanian Interpreter: Step-by-Step Career Guide Schools for Aspiring Locomotive Engineers: How to Choose Criminal Investigative Psychology Schools and Colleges in the U.S. Online PhD Programs in Engineering: Degree Overviews Online Courses in Organizational Development HR Administrative Assistant: Job Duties and Requirements How to Become an RN Clinical Education Coordinator Keyboarding Classes Portland Oregon Become a Landscape Engineer Career Roadmap Everett, Washington (WA) Colleges Online Fire Science Bachelors Degree Program Overviews × Course Navigator  Back To Course Statistics 101: Principles of Statistics 10 chapters | 130 lessons 1 - Overview of Statistics Go to Overview of Statistics 2 - Summarizing Data Go to Summarizing Data 3 - Tables and Plots Go to Tables and Plots 4 - Probability Go to Probability 5 - Discrete Probability Distributions Go to Discrete Probability Distributions 6 - Continuous Probability Distributions Go to Continuous Probability Distributions 7 - Sampling Go to Sampling 8 - Regression & Correlation Creating & Interpreting Scatterplots: Process & Examples 6:14 9:52 Next Lesson Simple Linear Regression: Definition, Formula & Examples Problem Solving Using Linear Regression: Steps & Examples 8:38 Analyzing Residuals: Process & Examples 5:30 Interpreting the Slope & Intercept of a Linear Model 8:05 The Correlation Coefficient: Definition, Formula & Example 9:57 The Correlation Coefficient: Practice Problems 8:14 How to Interpret Correlations in Research Results 14:31 Correlation vs. Causation: Differences & Definition 7:27 Interpreting Linear Relationships Using Data: Practice Problems 6:15 Transforming Nonlinear Data: Steps & Examples 9:25 Coefficient of Determination: Definition, Formula & Example 5:21 Pearson Correlation Coefficient: Formula, Example & Significance 6:31 Go to Regression & Correlation 9 - Statistical Estimation Go to Statistical Estimation 10 - Hypothesis Testing Go to Hypothesis Testing Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
