#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 2010-2019 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 2010-2019 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 Baahubali: The Beginning July 2015 Director: S.S. Rajamouli. Cast: Prabhas, Anushka Shetty, Tamanna Bhatia, Rana Daggubati, Nasser, Ramya Krishnan, Sudeep, Adivi Sesh, Sathyaraj, Prabhakar, S.S. Rajamouli, Rohini. Overview: Smuggled out of the kingdom of Mahishmati as a baby and raised by tribal people in a village located at the foot of a waterfall, Shivudu (Prabhas) is the Bahubali, a human with god-like strength and valor. After repeated attempts to scale the mountains and climb up to the top of the waterfall, Shiva finally achieves his goal, only to encounter Avanthika (Tamannaah), a female warrior and member of a rebel group. He falls in love with Avanthika. Avanthika leads Shiva to his destiny beyond the walls of Mahishmati, where despotic king Bhallala Dev (Rana Daggubati) is installing a 100-foot gold statue of himself. Shiva is royalty and heir to the Mahishmati kingdom. Son of the noble king Amarendra Baahubali (Prabhas in a dual role) and queen Devasena (Anushka Shetty), he is destined to fight the evil king Bhallala Deva, who tortured his parents and forcefully seized their kingdom. Genres: Drama, Action. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 39m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 Inception 2010 Your mind is the scene of the crime. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Marion Cotillard, Ken Watanabe, Michael Caine, Tom Hardy, Cillian Murphy, Tom Berenger, Lukas Haas, Dileep Rao. Overview: Dom Cobb is a skilled thief, the absolute best in the dangerous art of extraction, stealing valuable secrets from deep within the subconscious during the dream state, when the mind is at its most vulnerable. Cobb's rare ability has made him a coveted player in this treacherous new world of corporate espionage, but it has also made him an international fugitive and cost him everything he has ever loved. Now Cobb is being offered a chance at redemption. One last job could give him his life back but only if he can accomplish the impossible - inception. Instead of the perfect heist, Cobb and his team of specialists have to pull off the reverse: their task is not to steal an idea but to plant one. If they succeed, it could be the perfect crime. But no amount of careful planning or expertise can prepare the team for the dangerous enemy that seems to predict their every move. An enemy that only Cobb could have seen coming. Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 28m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 Interstellar 2014 Mankind was born on Earth. It was never meant to die here. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Matthew McConaughey, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Michael Caine, Casey Affleck, Ellen Burstyn, Matt Damon, John Lithgow, Timothee Chalamet, Mackenzie Foy, Wes Bentley, Bill Irwin, Topher Grace, David Oyelowo, David Gyasi. Overview: Interstellar chronicles the adventures of a group of explorers who make use of a newly discovered wormhole to surpass the limitations on human space travel and conquer the vast distances involved in an interstellar voyage. Genres: Drama, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 49m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Intouchables 2012 A masseuse's journey to find the human touch. Directors: Eric Toledano, Olivier Nakache. Cast: François Cluzet, Omar Sy, Anne Le Ny, Audrey Fleurot, Clotilde Mollet, Alba Gaïa Kraghede Bellugi, Cyril Mendy, Christian Ameri, Salimata Kamate, Marie-Laure Descoureaux. Overview: A true story of two men who should never have met - a quadriplegic aristocrat who was injured in a paragliding accident and a young man from the projects. Genres: Drama, Comedy, Foreign. Country: France. Runtime: 1h 52m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 Inside Out June 2015 Meet the little voices inside your head. Director: Pete Docter. Cast: Amy Poehler, Mindy Kaling, Bill Hader, Phyllis Smith, Lewis Black, Kaitlyn Dias, Paris Van Dyke, Kyle MacLachlan, Lori Alan, Richard Kind, Diane Lane, Paula Pell, Bobby Moynihan, Paula Poundstone, John Ratzenberger. Overview: Growing up can be a bumpy road, and it's no exception for Riley, who is uprooted from her Midwest life when her father starts a new job in San Francisco. Like all of us, Riley is guided by her emotions - Joy, Fear, Anger, Disgust and Sadness. The emotions live in Headquarters, the control center inside Riley's mind, where they help advise her through everyday life. As Riley and her emotions struggle to adjust to a new life in San Francisco, turmoil ensues in Headquarters. Although Joy, Riley's main and most important emotion, tries to keep things positive, the emotions conflict on how best to navigate a new city, house and school. Genres: Animation, Comedy, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 Whiplash 2014 The road to greatness can take you to the edge. Director: Damien Chazelle. Cast: Miles Teller, J.K. Simmons, Melissa Benoist, Austin Stowell, Jayson Blair, Kavita Patil, Paul Reiser. Overview: Under the direction of a ruthless instructor, a talented young drummer begins to pursue perfection at any cost, even his humanity. Genres: Drama, Music. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 The Dark Knight Rises 2012 The Legend Ends Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Christian Bale, Anne Hathaway, Tom Hardy, Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman, Michael Caine, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Juno Temple, Nestor Carbonell, Marion Cotillard, Josh Pence, Vincent van Ommen, Tom Conti, Matthew Modine, Joey King. Overview: Following the death of District Attorney Harvey Dent, Batman assumes responsibility for Dent's crimes to protect Dent's reputation and is subsequently hunted by the Gotham City Police Department. Eight years later The Dark Knight, returns to Gotham, where he encounters the mysterious Selina Kyle and the villainous Bane, a new terrorist leader who overwhelms Gotham's finest, and the Dark Knight resurfaces to protect a city that has branded him an enemy. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 45m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 Django Unchained 2012 Life, liberty and the pursuit of vengeance. Director: Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Christoph Waltz, Jamie Foxx, Tom Savini, Samuel L. Jackson, Kerry Washington, James Remar, Don Johnson, James Russo, M. C. Gainey, Dennis Christopher, David Steen, Dana Michelle Gourrier, Nichole Galicia, Laura Cayouette. Overview: A slave-turned-bounty hunter sets out to rescue his wife from the brutal Calvin Candie, a Mississippi plantation owner. Genres: Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 45m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 A Separation 2011 Jodái-e Náder az Simin / جدایی نادر از سیمین Ugly truth, sweet lies. Director: Asghar Farhadi. Cast: Leila Hatami, Kimia Hosseini, Merila Zarei, Peyman Moaadi, Sareh Bayat, Shahab Hosseini, Ali-Asghar Shahbazi, Shirin Yazdanbakhsh, Mohammad Sajadian, Armine Zeytounchian. Overview: The movie is centered on a couple, Nader and Simin, and their 11-year-old daughter, Termeh. Nader and Simin are about to leave the country for good; however, Nader has a change of heart and decides to stay and look after his father who suffers from Alzheimer's disease. Simin is determined to get a divorce and leave the country with her daughter, but the court does not find in her favor. Simin goes to live with her mother and Termeh returns to live with her father with the hope that her mother will be back some day. Genre: Drama. Country: Iran. Runtime: 2h 3m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 Toy Story 3 2010 No toy gets left behind. Director: Lee Unkrich. Cast: Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Joan Cusack, Ned Beatty, Michael Keaton, Whoopi Goldberg, Bonnie Hunt, Wallace Shawn, John Ratzenberger, Don Rickles, Estelle Harris. Overview: Woody, Buzz, and the rest of Andy's toys haven't been played with in years. With Andy about to go to college, the gang find themselves accidentally left at a nefarious day care center. The toys must band together to escape and return home to Andy. Genres: Animation, Family, Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 43m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Bhaag Milkha Bhaag 2013 Now you will see his Real Story. Director: Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra. Cast: Farhan Akhtar, Sonam Kapoor, Divya Dutta, Pavan Malhotra, Rebecca Breeds, Prakash Raj, Yograj Singh, Art Malik. Overview: The true story of the "Flying Sikh" world champion runner and Olympian Milkha Singh who overcame the massacre of his family, civil war during the India-Pakistan partition, and homelessness to become one of India's most iconic athletes. Genres: Drama, History. Country: India. Runtime: 3h 6m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 PK 2014 Peekay hai hum Peekay Director: Rajkumar Hirani. Cast: Aamir Khan, Anushka Sharma, Sushant Singh Rajput, Boman Irani, Sanjay Dutt. Overview: A stranger in the city asks questions no one has asked before. Known only by his initials, P.K.'s innocent questions and childlike curiosity will take him on a journey of love, laughter and letting-go. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 33m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 Mad Max: Fury Road May 2015 What a Lovely Day. Director: George Miller. Cast: Tom Hardy, Charlize Theron, Hugh Keays-Byrne, Nicholas Hoult, Josh Helman, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, Zoë Kravitz, Riley Keough, Nathan Jones, Richard Norton, Abbey Lee, Courtney Eaton, Megan Gale, Melissa Jaffer, Richard Carter. Overview: An apocalyptic story set in the furthest reaches of our planet, in a stark desert landscape where humanity is broken, and most everyone is crazed fighting for the necessities of life. Within this world exist two rebels on the run who just might be able to restore order. There's Max, a man of action and a man of few words, who seeks peace of mind following the loss of his wife and child in the aftermath of the chaos. And Furiosa, a woman of action and a woman who believes her path to survival may be achieved if she can make it across the desert back to her childhood homeland. Genres: Thriller, Action, Adventure. Countries: Australia, United States of America. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Straight Outta Compton August 2015 The Story of N.W.A. Director: F. Gary Gray. Cast: Paul Giamatti, Aldis Hodge, Keith Stanfield, Angela Elayne Gibbs, Alexandra Shipp, Orlando Brown, R. Marcus Taylor, Corey Hawkins, Allen Maldonado, Dean Cameron, O'Shea Jackson Jr., Neil Brown Jr., Aeriél Miranda, Lauren Pacheco, Jason Mitchell. Overview: The group NWA emerges from the streets of Compton, California in the mid-1980s and revolutionizes pop culture with their music and tales about life in the hood. Genres: Drama, Music. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 27m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 Bajrangi Bhaijaan July 2015 Director: Kabir Khan. Cast: Salman Khan, Kareena Kapoor, Harshaali Malthotra, Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Rajesh Sharma, Sharat Saxena, Om Puri, Meher Vij. Overview: A young mute girl from Pakistan loses herself in India with no way to head back. A devoted man with a magnanimous spirit undertakes the task to get her back to her motherland and unite her with her family. Genres: Drama, Comedy. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 39m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Warrior 2011 Fight for Family Director: Gavin O'Connor. Cast: Tom Hardy, Jennifer Morrison, Nick Nolte, Joel Edgerton, Frank Grillo, Jennifer Morrison, Kevin Dunn, Maximiliano Hernández, Bryan Callen, Sam Sheridan, Jake McLaughlin, Vanessa Martinez, Denzel Whitaker, Carlos Miranda, Nick Lehane. Overview: An ex-Marine haunted by a tragic past, Tommy Riordan (Tom Hardy) returns to his hometown of Pittsburgh and enlists his father (Nick Nolte), a recovering alcoholic and his former coach, to train him for an MMA tournament awarding the biggest purse in the history of the sport. As Tommy blazes a violent path toward the title prize, his brother Brendan (Joel Edgerton), a former MMA fighter unable to make ends meet as a public school teacher, returns to the amateur ring to provide for his family. Even though years have passed, recriminations and past betrayals keep Brendan bitterly estranged from both Tommy and his father. But when Brendan's unlikely rise as an underdog sets him on a collision course with Tommy, the two brothers must finally confront the forces that tore them apart, all the while waging the most intense winner-take-all battle of their lives. Genres: Action, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 20m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Barfi! 2012 Director: Anurag Basu. Cast: Priyanka Chopra, Ranbir Kapoor, Ileana D'Cruz, Sumona Chakravarti. Overview: He is cute. He's shrewd. The girls love him. The cops hate him. He can't speak but is always talked about. His naughty antics will make you scream, but he will never listen. Cos he can't! Next summer ride a rollercoaster of emotions with Barfii - the Chalu Chaplin! Genres: Drama, Romance, Foreign. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 35m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 The Wolf of Wall Street 2013 EARN. SPEND. PARTY. Director: Martin Scorsese. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Jonah Hill, Matthew McConaughey, Jon Bernthal, Jon Favreau, Cristin Milioti, Kyle Chandler, Ethan Suplee, Spike Jonze, Rob Reiner, Jean Dujardin, Margot Robbie, Shea Whigham, Spike Jonze, Madison McKinley. Overview: A New York stockbroker refuses to cooperate in a large securities fraud case involving corruption on Wall Street, corporate banking world and mob infiltration. Based on Jordan Belfort's autobiography. Genres: Comedy, Crime, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Incendies 2010 The search began at the opening of their mother's will. Director: Denis Villeneuve. Cast: Lubna Azabal, Mélissa Désormeaux-Poulin, Maxim Gaudette, Rémy Girard. Overview: A mother's last wishes send twins Jeanne and Simon on a journey to Middle East in search of their tangled roots. Adapted from Wajdi Mouawad's acclaimed play, Incendies tells the powerful and moving tale of two young adults' voyage to the core of deep-rooted hatred, never-ending wars and enduring love. Genres: Drama, Mystery, War. Countries: Canada, France. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 How to Train Your Dragon 2010 We’re lonely, so, let’s be lonely together. Directors: Dean DeBlois, Chris Sanders. Cast: Jay Baruchel, Gerard Butler, Craig Ferguson, America Ferrera, Jonah Hill, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, T.J. Miller, Kristen Wiig, Robin Atkin Downes, Philip McGrade, Kieron Elliott, Ashley Jensen, David Tennant. Overview: As the son of a Viking leader on the cusp of manhood, shy Hiccup Horrendous Haddock III faces a rite of passage: He must kill a dragon to prove his warrior mettle. But after downing a feared dragon, he realizes that he no longer wants to destroy it. So, he befriends the beast -- which he names Toothless -- much to the chagrin of his warrior father Genres: Animation, Family, Adventure, Comedy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 38m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 Rush 2013 Everyone's driven by something. Director: Ron Howard. Cast: Daniel Brühl, Chris Hemsworth, Olivia Wilde, Alexandra Maria Lara, Natalie Dormer, Christian McKay, Tom Wlaschiha. Overview: A biography of Formula 1 champion driver Niki Lauda and the 1976 crash that almost claimed his life. Mere weeks after the accident, he got behind the wheel to challenge his rival, James Hunt. Genres: Action, Drama, Sports Film. Countries: United Kingdom, Germany, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 3m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Gone Girl 2014 You don't know what you've got 'til it's... Director: David Fincher. Cast: Ben Affleck, Rosamund Pike, Tyler Perry, Neil Patrick Harris, Missi Pyle, Patrick Fugit, Kim Dickens, Casey Wilson, Kathleen Rose Perkins, Emily Ratajkowski, Scoot McNairy, Boyd Holbrook, Lola Kirke, Carrie Coon. Overview: With his wife's disappearance having become the focus of an intense media circus, a man sees the spotlight turned on him when it's suspected that he may not be innocent. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 29m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Wild Tales 2014 Relatos salvajes Director: Damián Szifrón. Cast: Ricardo Darín, Leonardo Sbaraglia, Darío Grandinetti, Erica Rivas, Erica Rivas, Nancy Dupláa, María Onetto , María Onetto , Rita Cortese, Rita Cortese. Overview: A story about love deception, the return of the past, a tragedy, or even the violence contained in an everyday detail, appear themselves to push them towards the abyss, into the undeniable pleasure of losing control. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Thriller. Countries: Argentina, Spain. Runtime: 2h 5m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Mommy 2014 Director: Xavier Dolan. Cast: Anne Dorval, Antoine-Olivier Pilon, Suzanne Clément, Patrick Huard. Overview: A widowed single mother, raising her violent son alone, finds new hope when a mysterious neighbor inserts herself into their household. Genre: Drama. Country: Canada. Runtime: 2h 20m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 Me and Earl and the Dying Girl June 2015 A Little Friendship Never Killed Anyone. Director: Alfonso Gomez-Rejon. Cast: Thomas Mann, RJ Cyler, Olivia Cooke, Connie Britton, Nick Offerman, Molly Shannon, Hugh Jackman. Overview: Greg is coasting through senior year of high school as anonymously as possible, avoiding social interactions like the plague while secretly making spirited, bizarre films with Earl, his only friend. But both his anonymity and friendship threaten to unravel when his mother forces him to befriend a classmate with leukemia. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 44m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 The Avengers 2012 Some assembly required. Director: Joss Whedon. Cast: Chris Evans, Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Jeremy Renner, Scarlett Johansson, Tom Hiddleston, Samuel L. Jackson, Cobie Smulders, Clark Gregg, Gwyneth Paltrow, Stellan Skarsgård, Paul Bettany, Lou Ferrigno, Jenny Agutter, Walter Perez. Overview: When an unexpected enemy emerges that threatens global safety and security, Nick Fury, Director of the international peacekeeping agency known as S.H.I.E.L.D., finds himself in need of a team to pull the world back from the brink of disaster. Spanning the globe, a daring recruitment effort begins. Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 15m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 12 Years a Slave 2013 Director: Steve McQueen. Cast: Michael Fassbender, Brad Pitt, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael K. Williams, Paul Dano, Benedict Cumberbatch, Garret Dillahunt, Ruth Negga, Sarah Paulson, Scoot McNairy, Paul Giamatti, Taran Killam, Alfre Woodard. Overview: A man living in New York during the mid-1800s is kidnapped and sold into slavery in the deep south. Genres: Drama, History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 13m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 The Grand Budapest Hotel 2014 Director: Wes Anderson. Cast: Ralph Fiennes, Tony Revolori, F. Murray Abraham, Mathieu Amalric, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Harvey Keitel, Jude Law, Bill Murray, Edward Norton, Saoirse Ronan, Jason Schwartzman, Léa Seydoux, Tilda Swinton. Overview: The Grand Budapest Hotel tells of a legendary concierge at a famous European hotel between the wars and his friendship with a young employee who becomes his trusted protégé. The story involves the theft and recovery of a priceless Renaissance painting, the battle for an enormous family fortune and the slow and then sudden upheavals that transformed Europe during the first half of the 20th century. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Countries: Germany, United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 39m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Guardians of the Galaxy 2014 All heroes start somewhere. Director: James Gunn. Cast: Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Dave Bautista, Bradley Cooper, Vin Diesel, Lee Pace, Michael Rooker, Karen Gillan, Djimon Hounsou, John C. Reilly, Glenn Close, Benicio del Toro, Josh Brolin, Ophelia Lovibond, Laura Haddock. Overview: A futuristic team of superheroes protect the galaxy from danger. A jet pilot gets stranded in space, and must unite a diverse team of aliens to form a squad capable of defeating cosmic threats. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 2011 It all ends here Director: David Yates. Cast: Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, Robbie Coltrane, Gemma Jones, Clémence Poésy, Emma Thompson, Warwick Davis, David Thewlis, Domhnall Gleeson, James Phelps, Oliver Phelps, Jim Broadbent. Overview: The end begins as Harry, Ron, and Hermione go back to Hogwarts to find and destroy Voldemorts final horcruxes, but when Voldemort finds out about their mission, the biggest battle begins and life as they know it will never be the same again. Genres: Action, Adventure, Family, Fantasy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 15m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 Shutter Island 2010 Someone is missing. Director: Martin Scorsese. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Mark Ruffalo, Ben Kingsley, Emily Mortimer, Michelle Williams, Max von Sydow, Jackie Earle Haley, Patricia Clarkson, Ted Levine, John Carroll Lynch, Elias Koteas, Robin Bartlett, Christopher Denham, Spencer Treat Clark, Charlie Hewson. Overview: Drama is set in 1954, U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels is investigating the disappearance of a murderess who escaped from a hospital for the criminally insane and is presumed to be hiding on the remote Shutter Island. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 18m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara 2011 Lets make this the most memorable road trip ever. Director: Zoya Akhtar. Cast: Hrithik Roshan, Farhan Akhtar, Abhay Deol, Katrina Kaif, Kalki Koechlin, Naseeruddin Shah, Ariadna Cabrol, Deepti Naval. Overview: Mumbai-based Kabir Dhiman, who comes from a wealthy building construction family, proposes to his long-time girlfriend, Natasha, much to the delight of both their respective families. He then gets together with one of two of his close friends, Imran Habib, a writer by profession, and they contact their London-based financial broker friend, Arjun, to remind him of a pact of traveling to Spain. The trio commence their long overdue trip not fully realizing that Arjun has still not forgiven Imran for his break-up with Sunani, while he himself regrets being dumped by Rohini, and must also compete with Imran for the affections of gorgeous Deep Sea Diving Instructor, Laila; Kabir struggles to accept life as Natasha's husband; and Imran must ready himself to meet his biological father, Salman, who had abandoned him at birth. Genres: Drama, Comedy, Romance, Foreign. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 15m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 The Imitation Game 2014 Director: Morten Tyldum. Cast: Benedict Cumberbatch, Keira Knightley, Mark Strong, Rory Kinnear, Charles Dance, Allen Leech, Matthew Beard, Matthew Goode, Tuppence Middleton, Steven Waddington, Hayley Joanne Bacon, Tom Goodman-Hill, Hannah Flynn, Matthew Beard, Ancuta Breaban. Overview: Based on the real life story of legendary cryptanalyst Alan Turing, the film portrays the nail-biting race against time by Turing and his brilliant team of code-breakers at Britain's top-secret Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park, during the darkest days of World War II. Genres: Drama, History, Thriller, War. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 The Help 2011 Change begins with a whisper. Director: Tate Taylor. Cast: Emma Stone, Bryce Dallas Howard, Mike Vogel, Sissy Spacek, Viola Davis, Octavia Spencer, Cicely Tyson, Aunjanue Ellis. Overview: Aibileen Clark (Viola Davis) is a middle-aged African-American maid who has spent her life raising white children and has recently lost her only son; Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer) is an African-American maid who has often offended her employers despite her family's struggles with money and her desperate need for jobs; and Eugenia "Skeeter" Phelan (Emma Stone) is a young white woman who has recently moved back home after graduating college to find out her childhood maid has mysteriously disappeared. These three stories intertwine to explain how life in Jackson, Mississippi revolves around "the help"; yet they are always kept at a certain distance because of racial lines. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 26m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 X-Men: Days of Future Past 2014 To save the future, they must alter the past Director: Bryan Singer. Cast: Patrick Stewart, James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender, Ian McKellen, Jennifer Lawrence, Nicholas Hoult, Hugh Jackman, Ellen Page, Shawn Ashmore, Peter Dinklage, Halle Berry, Booboo Stewart, Fan Bingbing, Daniel Cudmore, Adan Canto. Overview: The ultimate X-Men ensemble fights a war for the survival of the species across two time periods in X-MEN: DAYS OF FUTURE PAST. The beloved characters from the original “X-Men” film trilogy join forces with their younger selves from “X-Men: First Class,” in an epic battle that must change the past – to save our future. Genres: Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Country: Canada. Runtime: 2h 11m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 The King's Speech 2010 God save the king. Director: Tom Hooper. Cast: Colin Firth, Geoffrey Rush, Helena Bonham Carter, Guy Pearce, Claire Bloom, Michael Gambon, Timothy Spall, Derek Jacobi, Jennifer Ehle, Ramona Marquez, Freya Wilson. Overview: Tells the story of the man who became King George VI, the father of Queen Elizabeth II. After his brother abdicates, George ('Bertie') reluctantly assumes the throne. Plagued by a dreaded stutter and considered unfit to be king, Bertie engages the help of an unorthodox speech therapist named Lionel Logue. Through a set of unexpected techniques, and as a result of an unlikely friendship, Bertie is able to find his voice and boldly lead the country into war. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 Prisoners 2013 Every moment matters Director: Denis Villeneuve. Cast: Jake Gyllenhaal, Hugh Jackman, Paul Dano, Maria Bello, Melissa Leo, Viola Davis, Terrence Howard, Dylan Minnette, Zoe Borde, Wayne Duvall, David Dastmalchian, Len Cariou, Sandra Ellis Lafferty. Overview: A Boston man kidnaps the person he suspects is behind the disappearance of his young daughter and her best friend. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 26m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 The Perks of Being a Wallflower 2012 We are infinite. Director: Stephen Chbosky. Cast: Logan Lerman, Emma Watson, Ezra Miller, Paul Rudd, Nina Dobrev, Mae Whitman, Melanie Lynskey, Dylan McDermott, Kate Walsh, Zane Holtz, Johnny Simmons, Nicholas Braun, Reece Thompson, Julia Garner, Erin Wilhelmi. Overview: A coming-of-age story based on the best-selling novel by Stephen Chbosky, which follows 15-year-old freshman Charlie, an endearing and naive outsider who is taken under the wings of two seniors. The Perks of Being a Wallflower is a moving tale of love, loss, fear and hope - and the unforgettable friends that help us through life. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 43m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 The Raid 2 2014 The Raid 2: Berandal It's Not Over Yet Director: Gareth Evans. Cast: Iko Uwais, Arifin Putra, Tio Pakusodewo, Oka Antara, Julie Estelle, Ken'ichi Endô, Kazuki Kitamura, Donny Alamsyah, Alek Abbad, Very Tri Yulisman, Yayan Ruhian, Ryuhei Matsuda, Roy Marten, Epy Kusnandar, Cok Simbara. Overview: After fighting his way through an apartment building populated by an army of dangerous criminals and escaping with his life, SWAT team member Rama goes undercover, joining a powerful Indonesian crime syndicate to protect his family and uncover corrupt members of his own force. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Country: Indonesia. Runtime: 2h 30m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Boyhood 2014 Director: Richard Linklater. Cast: Ellar Coltrane, Patricia Arquette, Ethan Hawke, Lorelei Linklater, Tamara Jolaine, Zoe Graham, Sam Dillon, Nick Krause, Shane Graham. Overview: The film tells a story of a divorced couple trying to raise their young son. The story follows the boy for twelve years, from first grade at age 6 through 12th grade at age 17-18, and examines his relationship with his parents as he grows. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 44m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 Dragon Ball Z: Resurrection 'F' April 2015 劇場版　ドラゴンボールZ　復活のF Director: Tadayoshi Yamamuro. Cast: Ryō Horikawa, Ryuusei Nakao, Masaka Nozawa, Hiromi Tsuru, Kôichi Yamadera. Overview: One peaceful day on Earth, two remnants of Frieza's army named Sorbet and Tagoma arrive searching for the Dragon Balls with the aim of reviving Frieza. They succeed, and Frieza subsequently seeks revenge on the Saiyans. Genres: Animation, Fantasy, Action, Adventure. Country: Japan. Runtime: 1h 33m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 Her 2013 Director: Spike Jonze. Cast: Olivia Wilde, Amy Adams, Rooney Mara, Joaquin Phoenix, Scarlett Johansson, Chris Pratt, Portia Doubleday, Sam Jaeger, Katherine Boecher, Kelly Sarah, Spike Jonze, Bill Hader, Kristen Wiig. Overview: In the not so distant future, Theodore, a lonely writer purchases a newly developed operating system designed to meet the user's every needs. To Theordore's surprise, a romantic relationship develops between him and his operating system. This unconventional love story blends science fiction and romance in a sweet tale that explores the nature of love and the ways that technology isolates and connects us all. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Science Fiction, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 Black Swan 2010 In the era of personal branding, the scariest possibility is that someone might be better at being you than you are. Director: Darren Aronofsky. Cast: Natalie Portman, Christopher Gartin, Mila Kunis, Winona Ryder, Vincent Cassel, Ksenia Solo, Toby Hemingway, Barbara Hershey, Janet Montgomery, Kristina Anapau, Marcia Jean Kurtz, Deborah Offner, Adriene Couvillion, Shaun O'Hagan, Sebastian Stan. Overview: Nina is a ballerina in a New York City ballet company whose life, like all those in her profession, is completely consumed with dance. She lives with her obsessive former ballerina mother Erica who exerts a suffocating control over her. When artistic director Thomas Leroy decides to replace prima ballerina Beth MacIntyre for the opening production of their new season, Swan Lake, Nina is his first choice. But Nina has competition: a new dancer, Lily, who impresses Leroy as well. Swan Lake requires a dancer who can play both the White Swan with innocence and grace, and the Black Swan, who represents guile and sensuality. Nina fits the White Swan role perfectly but Lily is the personification of the Black Swan. As the two young dancers expand their rivalry into a twisted friendship, Nina begins to get more in touch with her dark side - a recklessness that threatens to destroy her. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 Dallas Buyers Club 2013 Dare to Live Director: Jean-Marc Vallée. Cast: Matthew McConaughey, Jennifer Garner, Jared Leto, Dallas Roberts, Jane McNeill, Steve Zahn, Dennis O'Hare, Kevin Rankin, Griffin Dunne, Juliet Reeves. Overview: Loosely based on the true-life tale of Ron Woodroof, a drug taking, women loving, homophobic man who, in 1986 was diagnosed with full blown HIV/AIDS and given thirty days to live. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 57m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 Life of Pi 2012 Director: Ang Lee. Cast: Tobey Maguire, Gérard Depardieu, Irrfan Khan, Tabu, Suraj Sharma, Adil Hussain, Ayush Tandon. Overview: The story of an Indian boy named Pi, a zookeeper's son who finds himself in the company of a hyena, zebra, orangutan, and a Bengal tiger after a shipwreck sets them adrift in the Pacific Ocean. Genres: Adventure, Drama, Action. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 7m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 The Artist 2011 Director: Michel Hazanavicius. Cast: Jean Dujardin, Bérénice Bejo, John Goodman, James Cromwell, Penelope Ann Miller, Missi Pyle. Overview: Hollywood, 1927: As silent movie star George Valentin wonders if the arrival of talking pictures will cause him to fade into oblivion, he sparks with Peppy Miller, a young dancer set for a big break. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: France. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey 2012 From the smallest beginnings come the greatest legends. Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Martin Freeman, Richard Armitage, Ian McKellen, Andy Serkis, Cate Blanchett, Christopher Lee, Sylvester McCoy, Ian Holm, Elijah Wood, Luke Evans, Hugo Weaving, Lee Pace, Conan Stevens, Bret McKenzie, Aidan Turner. Overview: The adventure follows Bilbo Baggins, who is swept into an epic quest to reclaim Erebor with the help of Gandalf the Grey and 13 Dwarves led by the legendary warrior, Thorin Oakenshield. Their journey will take them into the wild, through treacherous lands swarming with Goblins, Orcs and deadly Wargs, a mysterious and sinister figure known only as the Necromancer, and a creature that will forever change Bilbo's life...Gollum. Alone with Gollum, Bilbo Baggins not only discovers depths of ingenuity and courage that surprise even him, he also gains possession of Gollum's "precious" ring that holds unexpected and useful qualities...A simple, gold ring that is tied to the fate of all Middle-earth in ways Bilbo cannot begin to know. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy, Action. Countries: United States of America, New Zealand. Runtime: 2h 49m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug 2013 Beyond darkness... beyond desolation... lies the greatest danger of all. Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Martin Freeman, Andy Serkis, Elijah Wood, Hugo Weaving, Ian McKellen, Ian Holm, Christopher Lee, Mikael Persbrandt, Sylvester McCoy, Stephen Fry, Benedict Cumberbatch, John Bell, Dean O'Gorman, Terry Notary, Lee Pace. Overview: The Dwarves, Bilbo and Gandalf have successfully escaped the Misty Mountains, and Bilbo has gained the One Ring. They all continue their journey to get their gold back from the Dragon, Smaug. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 50m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 My Name Is Khan 2010 Director: Karan Johar. Cast: Shahrukh Khan, Kajol, Jimmy Shergill, Zarina Wahab, Tanay Chheda, Sheetal Menon, Arif Zakaria, Arjun Mathur, Christopher B. Duncan. Overview: Rizwan Khan, a Muslim from the Borivali section of Mumbai, suffers from Asperger's syndrome, a form of high-functioning autism that complicates socialization. The adult Rizwan marries a Hindu single mother, Mandira, in San Francisco. After 9/11, Rizwan is detained by authorities at LAX who mistake his disability for suspicious behavior. Genres: Drama, Eastern, Foreign, Romance. Countries: India, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 25m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 Before Midnight 2013 Director: Richard Linklater. Cast: Ethan Hawke, Julie Delpy, Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick, Xenia Kalogeropoulou, Ariane Labed, Athina Rachel Tsangari, Yannis Papadopoulos, Jennifer Prior, Charlotte Prior. Overview: We meet Jesse and Celine nine years on in Greece. Almost two decades have passed since their first meeting on that train bound for Vienna. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
