#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Be_a_Pastor_Education_Requirements_and_Career_Information.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Religious_Studies/Jewish_Studies.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_a_Certified_Lifeguard_Education_and_Career_Roadmap.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/articles/Organizational_Communication_Jobs_Options_and_Requirements.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Religious_Studies/Islamic_Studies.html
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_Bachelor_of_Arts_in_Christian_Studies_with_an_Emphasis_in_Biblical_Studies.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Be a Pastor: Education Requirements and Career Information
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Religious Studies  /  Pastoral Studies Liberal Arts and Humanities Religious Studies Biblical Studies Buddhist Studies Christian Studies Islamic Studies Jewish Studies Missionary Studies Religious Music Studies Theology and Religious Vocations Youth Ministry Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Glossary of Career Education Programs  /  Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Be a Pastor: Education Requirements... Be a Pastor: Education Requirements and Career Information Learn how to become a pastor. Research the education and career requirements, training information and experience required for starting a career as a pastor. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Should I Become a Pastor? Pastors promote spirituality in churches and other religious institutions through sermons and teachings. They organize regular services and may lead congregations who believe in a specific faith or who seek non-denominational worship. Pastors also counsel members, provide emotional support to other leaders and parishioners, visit sick people in hospitals, and assist the poor through outreach programs. Pastors may confer weddings, baptisms and funerals. Stress is inherent in this profession due to the serious nature of many situations and to the somewhat political aspects of the job. Career Requirements Degree Level Bachelor's degree; master's degree is generally preferred for some positions Experience Many job openings for pastors require five years of experience Licensing/Certification Pastors may need to be ordained in their faith Key Skills Speaking, active listening, service orientation, social perceptiveness Salary (2014) $43,950 (median salary for all clergy) Sources: O*Net, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree A career as a pastor begins with a 4-year degree. Popular majors for students who wish to pursue a career in religious leadership include Bible or pastoral studies, theology and ministry. Some programs offer bachelor's degrees in specific ministerial areas, such as pastoral studies. Courses in the program cover topics in the Old and New Testament, theology, ethics, pastoral studies and sociology. Success Tip: Be active in campus ministry. Colleges and universities may feature a campus ministry where students can worship and express their faith. Leading Bible study groups or helping within the community may be beneficial both spiritually and for graduate programs. Step 2: Gain Experience Pastors may begin their career as associate pastors. They'll work under the supervision of a senior pastor at the church. While associate pastors may lead spiritual groups and be available for counseling during the week, they may conduct readings during services and perform sermons periodically. Step 3: Complete a Master's Degree Program After the completion of a bachelor's degree, pastoral students typically begin their graduate coursework at a seminary or School of Divinity. Aspiring pastors may follow a degree plan for a Master of Divinity (M.Div.), but other options may be available. The M.Div. program lasts 3-4 years depending on the amount of courses taken each semester. Courses are strictly focused on religious practices, Bible study and congregational leadership. While all pastors study the Christian faith, additional courses based on the denomination of study may be offered. Most seminaries offer an apprenticeship-like program included in the master's program that allows pastoral students to observe and practice their developing skills with an ordained pastor. Step 4: Look for Senior Pastor Opportunities Depending on pastors' goals or the needs of a denomination, pastors may spend only a short time serving one congregation or serve one for many years. Typically, pastors are notified of job openings through postings from the denominational governing organization. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Be a Pastor: Education Requirements and Career Information RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Public Relations (PR) Professions Video: Educational Requirements and Career Options Criminal Psychology Professions Video: Educational Requirements and Career Options Pastor Courses Health Information Technology Career Education in Atlanta Computer Information Systems Career Education in WA Health Information Technology Career Education in Sandy, Utah Physical Education Career Top Divinity Schools in the U.S. Learn about courses and degree requirements at two top schools of divinity. Find out about program concentration options and... Be a Youth Pastor: Step-by-Step Career Guide Learn how to become a youth pastor. Research the education requirements, training information and experience required for... Top Schools for Christian Studies Read about the top schools for Christian studies, through which students can learn about the history and doctrine of Catholic... Distance Learning Christian Degrees at the Undergraduate Level Get information about distance learning Christian degrees at the undergraduate level. Read about program requirements, course... Christian Art Programs & Coursework Overview Dentist Education Requirements Sonography Career Education in GA Schools for Aspiring Pastors: How to Choose List of Free Online Christian Counseling Courses Colleges with Christian Psychology Programs: How to Choose Forensic Scientist: How Do I Start a Career in Forensic Science? Organizational Communication Jobs: Options and Requirements Seattle Careers: Top Growing Career Opportunities in Seattle, WA How to Become a Licensed Physical Therapist Assistant Christian Art Therapy Education and Training Program Info Christian Doctoral Program Options Microsoft Office Specialist: How Do I Become Certified? Online Masters Degree in Art History: Program Info Doctor of Medicine: Steps to Become a Medical Doctor Top Schools for Statistics How to Become a Certified Lifeguard Education and Career Roadmap Southern Police Institute Online School Administration and Supervision Certificate Programs How to Become a Firmware Design Engineer Career Roadmap Teaching Schools in San Antonio Be an Agriculture Research Technician Career Guide Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Christian Ministry Master MA in Christian Studies: Pastoral Ministry MS in Christian Counseling MS in Christian Counseling of Substance Use & Addictive Disorders Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Global Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Christian Leadership MA in Christian Studies: Youth Ministry Bachelor Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies BA in Christian Studies BA in Christian Studies - Worship Leadership B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Global Ministry B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Philosophy Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA General Studies Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of General Studies Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 4Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 5Loyola University Chicago School Info School locations: Illinois (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Loyola University Chicago include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Ethnic and Gender Studies Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Religious Studies Pastoral Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Get Started with Loyola University Chicago Research Loyola University Chicago's Programs 6Southwestern College School Info School locations: Arizona (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Southwestern College include: Non-Degree: Coursework Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Religious Studies Biblical Studies Pastoral Studies Get Started with Southwestern College Research Southwestern College's Programs 7Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Professional and Liberal Studies Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8World Mission University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at World Mission University include: Graduate: Doctorate, Master Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Philosophy Religious Studies Biblical Studies Pastoral Studies Theology and Religious Vocations Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Get Started with World Mission University Research World Mission University's Degree Programs 9University of Dayton School Info School locations: Ohio (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Dayton include: Graduate: First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Pastoral Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Get Started with University of Dayton Research University of Dayton's Programs 10Winebrenner Theological Seminary School Info School locations: Ohio (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Winebrenner Theological Seminary include: Graduate: Doctorate, Master Non-Degree: Liberal Arts and Humanities Philosophy Religious Studies Pastoral Studies Theology and Religious Vocations Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Get Started with Winebrenner Theological Seminary Research Winebrenner Theological Seminary's Degree Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Select your specialty subject area Biblical Studies Buddhist Studies Christian Studies Islamic Studies Jewish Studies Missionary Studies Pastoral Studies Religious Music Studies Theology and Religious Vocations Youth Ministry What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Grand Canyon University Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Christian Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Pastoral Ministry MS in Christian Counseling MS in Christian Counseling of Substance Use & Addictive Disorders Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Global Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Christian Leadership MA in Christian Studies: Youth Ministry Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies BA in Christian Studies BA in Christian Studies - Worship Leadership B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Global Ministry B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Philosophy View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2 Southern New Hampshire University BA General Studies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 Baker College Online Bachelor of General Studies When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 4 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 5 Loyola University Chicago 6 Southwestern College 7 Saint Joseph's University BS in Professional and Liberal Studies During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8 World Mission University 9 University of Dayton 10 Winebrenner Theological Seminary Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
