#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Where_Have_All_The_Cowboys_Gone_National_Cowboy_Poetry_Week.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/videos/Oklahoma_State_University_Video_Review.html
http://study.com/videos/How_to_Select_the_Right_School_Video.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Texas_Christian_University.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/Free_Books_-_50_Places_to_Find_Free_Books_Online.html
http://study.com/articles/Preschool_Teacher_How_to_Become_a_Preschool_Teacher.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Iowa_State_University.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Where Have All The Cowboys Gone: National Cowboy Poetry Week
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Agriculture  /  Agricultural Business  /  Farm and Ranch Management Agriculture Agricultural Business Agribusiness Operations Agricultural Economics Farm Supplies Retailing and Wholesaling Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Education Insider News Blog  /  News  /  April 2011  /  Where Have All The Cowboys Gone:... Where Have All The Cowboys Gone: National Cowboy Poetry Week Apr 18, 2011 Howdy! Got cattle wranglin' on the brain? You just might take a shine to cowboy poetry. If this genre is of interest to you, you're in luck: it's National Cowboy Poetry Week! Here's some info on cowboy poetry and some tips on how to celebrate. Yeehaw! View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools By Sarah Wright What Is Cowboy Poetry Week? Though it isn't exactly an established academic discipline, cowboy poetry is certainly a genre unto itself. Defined more by its plaintive, scenic content than any specific meter or melody, cowboy poetry is the product of the American West. National Cowboy Poetry Week is celebrated each year in April, which is the designated National Poetry Month in both the U.S. and Canada. In the U.S., this designation was officially recognized by the Senate in 2003, with bipartisan support from Senators representing Western states. Gatherings for this celebration typically take place on ranches in states like Colorado, Montana, Nevada, Utah and Montana. Usually, their purpose is to celebrate the past and present of the genre. Some people, particularly those in urban areas, may think that 'cowboy' is an obsolete career in the U.S., and many organizers of Cowboy Poetry Week events want to change this perception. However, it's not just those in the profession that are able to write a good cowboy poem, and many of these events have open poetry composition and reading contests. Cowboy Poets In the News Cowboy poetry became an unexpectedly hot issue in 2011. This formerly obscure genre found itself at the forefront of political debate when Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, criticized a budget plan proposed by Republicans. On the Senate floor, Reid mentioned the fact that the budget would force cuts to programs like the National Cowboy Poetry Gathering in Elko, NV. This gathering is separate from Cowboy Poetry Week, taking place in one area and typically occurring in February. Unfortunately for the cowboy poets, Reid was criticized in the press for his complaints about budget threats to the event. Conservative talking heads like Michelle Malkin and Sarah Palin mocked Reid's mention of the event as an important one worthy of federal funds. Whether their criticism is appropriate is a matter of opinion, but fortunately for cowboy poetry, the mockery was directed at Reid, not at the genre. However, this kind of negative attention was not entirely welcome in a relatively small and obscure community. Luckily, though, National Cowboy Poetry Week is an event that is privately funded, shielding it from any political media scandal. How To Celebrate Cowboy Poetry Week Even if you're a city slicker, there's still a chance that you've got the spirit of a cowpoke. Whether or not you have a Stetson hat to dust off, you can still get in the spirit of celebration. If you don't live close to any official events for Cowboy Poetry Week, here are some ideas to make your own celebration: Write your own poems! Read up on some famous cowboy poets, like Baxter Black and Frank Maynard, to get a sense of the style. Invite some friends over for a cowboy poetry reading. If you or someone you know is handy with a guitar, get the tablature for songs like 'Streets of Laredo' and 'Git Along Little Dogies' and arrange a campfire sing along. Read up on the history of the Old West. Writers who've addressed the topic include historian Richard Slotkin and researcher Harold Nash Smith. There is plenty of non-fictional literature about this region and period in U.S. history. If you're feeling a bit more romantic than scholarly, check out one of the many works of fiction that involve cowboys. Famous entries in this genre include Lonesome Dove, a novel by Larry McMurty that was made into a TV-miniseries, and any number of the many western movies starring John Wayne. If all this talk about poems has made you hungry for more, why not check out some poetry blogs? Show me 10 popular schools Related to Where Have All The Cowboys Gone: National Cowboy Poetry Week RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Oklahoma State University Video Review How to Select the Right School Video Hospital Info Management Degree Tap Your Inner Poet: 10 Top Poetry Blogs Not every blogger's a poet, but many poets are bloggers! The blogs below offer poetic commentary, tips for poetry writing,... List of Free Online Poetry Courses, Workshops and Classes See our list of the top free online poetry courses, workshops and classes. Learn about what courses are available, what topics... Poet: Job Information for Those Considering a Career in Poetry Learn more about the career of a poet. Discover the required training and skills, in addition to the employment outlook for... Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in Poetry: Degree Program Information Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.) programs with concentrations in poetry can help students further and refine their prose reading... Free Books - 50 Places to Find Free Books Online Poetry School, Course and Degree Program Information Express Yourself: Celebrate National Poetry Month April Is National Poetry Month Top School with a Degree in E-Commerce Management - Seattle, WA Preschool Teacher: How to Become a Preschool Teacher Civil Engineering: Requirements for Becoming a Civil Engineer How to Become a Database Administrator Online 'America's Team' Draws Ire by Using Overseas Sweatshops Arabic Language Training and Degree Program Overviews Should I Be an Aerospace Engineer? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Do You Need a Bachelors Degree To Be a Wedding Coordinator? Account Executives: Job Description & Requirements Soil Engineering Education and Training Program Information Financial Advisor Certification Adolescent Counseling Degree Program Information Associate of Business Science ABS Communications and Public Relations Degree Overview Kinesiology Phd All About the GED Alaska Master of Science MS Quality Control Degree Overview Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Iowa State University School Info School locations: Iowa (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Iowa State University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Agriculture Agricultural Business Agribusiness Operations Agricultural Economics Farm and Ranch Management Agriculture Production Animal Science Food Sciences and Technologies Plant Science Soil Science Get Started with Iowa State University Research Iowa State University's Programs 2Texas Christian University School Info School locations: Texas (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Texas Christian University include: Graduate: Master Non-Degree: Certificate, Diploma Undergraduate: Bachelor Agriculture Agricultural Business Farm and Ranch Management Get Started with Texas Christian University Research Texas Christian University's Degree Programs 3Johnson & Wales University School Info School locations: Rhode Island (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Johnson & Wales University include: Graduate: Master Non-Degree: Coursework Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Agriculture Agricultural Business Farm and Ranch Management Animal Services Get Started with Johnson & Wales University Research Johnson & Wales University's Degree Programs 4Trinity Valley Community College School Info School locations: Texas (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Trinity Valley Community College include: Graduate: Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Associate Agriculture Agricultural Business Farm and Ranch Management Horticulture Get Started with Trinity Valley Community College Research Trinity Valley Community College's Programs & Degrees 5St Cloud Technical and Community College School Info School locations: Minnesota (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at St Cloud Technical and Community College include: Graduate: Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Associate Agriculture Agricultural Business Farm and Ranch Management Get Started with St Cloud Technical and Community College Research St Cloud Technical and Community College's Programs 6Southwest Wisconsin Technical College School Info School locations: Wisconsin (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Southwest Wisconsin Technical College include: Graduate: Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Associate Agriculture Agricultural Business Farm and Ranch Management Farm Supplies Retailing and Wholesaling Agriculture Production Get Started with Southwest Wisconsin Technical College Research Southwest Wisconsin Technical College's Degree Programs 7South Central College School Info School locations: Minnesota (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at South Central College include: Graduate: Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Associate Agriculture Agricultural Business Agribusiness Operations Farm and Ranch Management Agriculture Production Get Started with South Central College Research South Central College's Programs & Degrees 8Sitting Bull College School Info School locations: North Dakota (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Sitting Bull College include: Graduate: Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Agriculture Agricultural Business Farm and Ranch Management Animal Services Get Started with Sitting Bull College Research Sitting Bull College's Degree Programs 9Ridgewater College School Info School locations: Minnesota (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Ridgewater College include: Graduate: Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Associate Agriculture Agricultural Business Agribusiness Operations Farm and Ranch Management Agriculture Production Plant Science Get Started with Ridgewater College Research Ridgewater College's Degree Programs 10Pratt Community College School Info School locations: Kansas (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Pratt Community College include: Graduate: Non-Degree: Diploma Undergraduate: Associate Agriculture Agricultural Business Agribusiness Operations Farm and Ranch Management Agriculture Production Get Started with Pratt Community College Research Pratt Community College's Programs & Degrees Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Agricultural Business Agriculture Production Animal Science Animal Services Food Sciences and Technologies Horticulture Plant Science Soil Science Select your specialty subject area Agribusiness Operations Agricultural Economics Farm and Ranch Management Farm Supplies Retailing and Wholesaling What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Iowa State University 2 Texas Christian University 3 Johnson & Wales University 4 Trinity Valley Community College 5 St Cloud Technical and Community College 6 Southwest Wisconsin Technical College 7 South Central College 8 Sitting Bull College 9 Ridgewater College 10 Pratt Community College Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
