#ThisURL#
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/anneofcleves.htm
#SubURL#
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/swan.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/essex3.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/johndevere12.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/wriothesley.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/georgeboleyn.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/pace.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/richarddelapole.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/lossofguienne.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/ladyjanegrey.htm
http://www.luminarium.org/encyclopedia/jackcade.htm
http://www.luminarium.com/index.html
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0521770378/luminariumA
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0802136834/luminariumA
http://www.luminarium.com/allposters/index.html
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0060005505/luminariumA
http://forum.luminarium.com/index.html
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0948695412/luminariumA
http://www.pbs.org/wnet/sixwives/meet/ac_handbook_main.html
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/067973001X/luminariumA
http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/041506533X/luminariumA
mailto:anniina@luminarium.org
http://www.bl.uk/catalogues/illuminatedmanuscripts/record.asp?MSID=2160&CollID=28&NStart=2809
#Title#
Queen Anne of Cleves (c.1515-1557) [England Under The Tudors]
#Content#
England under the Tudors Luminarium | Encyclopedia | What's New | Letter from the Editor | Bookstore | Poster Store | Discussion Forums | Search   ANNE OF CLEVES (1515-1557), Queen of England, fourth wife of Henry VIII, King of England, daughter of John, Duke of Cleves, and Mary, only daughter of William, Duke of Juliers, was born on the 22nd of September 1515. Her father was the leader of the German Protestants, and the princess, after the death of Jane Seymour, was regarded by Cromwell as a suitable wife for Henry VIII. She had been brought up in a narrow retirement, could speak no language but her own, had no looks, no accomplishments and no dowry, her only recommendations being her proficiency in needlework, and her meek and gentle temper. Nevertheless her picture, painted by Holbein by the king's command (now in the Louvre, a modern copy at Windsor), pleased Henry and the marriage was arranged, the treaty being signed on the 24th of September 1539. The princess landed at Deal on the 27th of December; Henry met her at Rochester on the 1st of January 1540, and was so much abashed at her appearance as to forget to present the gift he had brought for her, but nevertheless controlled himself sufficiently to treat her with courtesy. The next day he expressed openly his dissatisfaction at her looks; "she was no better than a Flanders mare." The attempt to prove a pre-contract with the son of the duke of Lorraine broke down, and Henry was forced to resign himself to the sacrifice. On the wedding morning, however, the 6th of January 1540, he declared that no earthly thing would have induced him to marry her but the fear of driving the duke of Cleves into the arms of the emperor. Shortly afterwards Henry had reason to regret the policy which had identified him so closely with the German Protestantism, and denied reconciliation with the emperor. Cromwell's fall was the result, and the chief obstacle to the repudiation of his wife being thus removed, Henry declared the marriage had not been and could not be consummated; and did not scruple to cast doubts on his wife's honour. On the 9th of July the marriage was declared null and void by convocation, and an act of parliament to the same effect was passed immediately. Henry soon afterwards married Catherine Howard. On first hearing of the king's intentions, Anne swooned away, but on recovering, while declaring her case a very hard and sorrowful one from the great love which she bore to the king, acquiesced quietly in the arrangements made for her by Henry, by which she received lands to the value of £4000 a year, renounced the title of queen for that of the king's sister, and undertook not to leave the kingdom. In a letter to her brother, drawn up by Gardiner by the king's direction, she acknowledged the unreality of the marriage and the king's kindness and generosity. Anne spent the rest of her life happily in England at Richmond or Bletchingley, occasionally visiting the court, and being described as joyous as ever, and wearing new dresses every day! An attempt to procure her reinstalment on the disgrace of Catherine Howard failed, and there was no foundation for the report that she had given birth to a child of which Henry was the reputed father. She was present at the marriage of Henry with Catherine Parr and at the coronation of Mary. She died on the 28th of July 1557 at Chelsea, and was buried in Westminster Abbey.       Excerpted from:       Encyclopedia Britannica, 11th Ed. Vol II.       Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1910. 69. Other Local Resources: Deed Granted by Henry VIII for the dowry for Anne of Cleves Henry VIII Video Clip found on YouTube: Books for further study: Elton, G. R. England Under the Tudors.            London: Routledge, 1991. Fraser, Antonia. The Wives of Henry VIII. Reissue.            London: Orion Books, 2002. Saaler, Mary. Ann Of Cleves: Fourth Wife of Henry VIII.            London: Rubicon Press, 1995. Starkey, David. Six Wives: The Queens of Henry VIII.            New York: Harper Perennial, 2004. Warnicke, Retha M. The Marrying of Anne of Cleves:            Royal Protocol in Early Modern England.            Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000. Weir, Alison. The Six Wives of Henry VIII.            New York: Grove Press, 1991. Anne of Cleves on the Web: Meet Anne of Cleves - PBS Deed Granting Anne of Cleves' Dowry - British Library to King Henry VIII to Renaissance English Literature to Luminarium Encyclopedia Index of Encyclopedia Entries: Medieval Cosmology Prices of Items in Medieval England Edward II Piers Gaveston Thomas, Earl of Lancaster Roger Mortimer, Earl of March Hundred Years' War (1337-1453) Edward III The Battle of Crécy, 1346 Edward, Black Prince of Wales Lionel of Antwerp, Duke of Clarence John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster Edmund of Langley, Duke of York Thomas of Woodstock, Gloucester Richard of York, E. of Cambridge Richard Fitzalan, 3. Earl of Arundel Roger Mortimer, 2nd Earl of March The Good Parliament, 1376 Richard II Lords Appellant, 1388 Richard Fitzalan, 4. Earl of Arundel Archbishop Thomas Arundel Thomas de Beauchamp, E. Warwick Robert de Vere, Earl of Oxford Ralph Neville, E. of Westmorland Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk Edmund Mortimer, 3. Earl of March Roger Mortimer, 4. Earl of March John Holland, Duke of Exeter Michael de la Pole, E. Suffolk Hugh de Stafford, 2. E. Stafford Henry IV Edward, Duke of York Edmund Mortimer, 5. Earl of March Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland Sir Henry Percy, "Harry Hotspur" Thomas Percy, Earl of Worcester Owen Glendower The Battle of Shrewsbury, 1403 Archbishop Richard Scrope Thomas Mowbray, 3. E. Nottingham John Mowbray, 2. Duke of Norfolk Thomas Fitzalan, 5. Earl of Arundel Henry V Thomas, Duke of Clarence John, Duke of Bedford Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester John Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury Richard, Earl of Cambridge Henry, Baron Scrope of Masham William de la Pole, Duke of Suffolk Thomas Montacute, E. Salisbury Richard Beauchamp, E. of Warwick Henry Beauchamp, Duke of Warwick Thomas Beaufort, Duke of Exeter Cardinal Henry Beaufort John Beaufort, Earl of Somerset Sir John Fastolf John Holland, 2. Duke of Exeter Archbishop John Stafford Archbishop John Kemp Catherine of Valois Owen Tudor John Fitzalan, 7. Earl of Arundel John, Lord Tiptoft Charles VII, King of France Joan of Arc Louis XI, King of France Charles the Bold, Duke of Burgundy The Battle of Castillon, 1453 The Wars of the Roses 1455-1485 Causes of the Wars of the Roses The House of Lancaster The House of York The House of Beaufort The House of Neville The First Battle of St. Albans, 1455 The Battle of Blore Heath, 1459 The Rout of Ludford, 1459 The Battle of Northampton, 1460 The Battle of Wakefield, 1460 The Battle of Mortimer's Cross, 1461 The 2nd Battle of St. Albans, 1461 The Battle of Towton, 1461 The Battle of Hedgeley Moor, 1464 The Battle of Hexham, 1464 The Battle of Edgecote, 1469 The Battle of Losecoat Field, 1470 The Battle of Barnet, 1471 The Battle of Tewkesbury, 1471 The Treaty of Pecquigny, 1475 The Battle of Bosworth Field, 1485 The Battle of Stoke Field, 1487 Henry VI Margaret of Anjou Richard Plantagenet, Duke of York Edward IV Elizabeth Woodville Richard Woodville, 1. Earl Rivers Anthony Woodville, 2. Earl Rivers Jane Shore Edward V Richard III George, Duke of Clarence Ralph Neville, 2. Earl of Westmorland Richard Neville, Earl of Salisbury Richard Neville, Earl of Warwick Edward Neville, Baron Bergavenny William Neville, Lord Fauconberg Robert Neville, Bishop of Salisbury John Neville, Marquis of Montagu George Neville, Archbishop of York John Beaufort, 1. Duke Somerset Edmund Beaufort, 2. Duke Somerset Henry Beaufort, 3. Duke of Somerset Edmund Beaufort, 4. Duke Somerset Margaret Beaufort Edmund Tudor, Earl of Richmond Jasper Tudor, Earl of Pembroke Humphrey Stafford, D. Buckingham Henry Stafford, Duke of Buckingham Humphrey Stafford, E. of Devon Thomas, Lord Stanley, Earl of Derby Sir William Stanley Archbishop Thomas Bourchier Henry Bourchier, Earl of Essex John Mowbray, 3. Duke of Norfolk John Mowbray, 4. Duke of Norfolk John Howard, Duke of Norfolk Henry Percy, 2. E. Northumberland Henry Percy, 3. E. Northumberland Henry Percy, 4. E. Northumberland William, Lord Hastings Henry Holland, Duke of Exeter William Fitzalan, Earl of Arundel William Herbert, 1. Earl of Pembroke John de Vere, 12th Earl of Oxford John de Vere, 13th Earl of Oxford Thomas de Clifford, 8. Baron Clifford John de Clifford, 9. Baron Clifford John Tiptoft, Earl of Worcester Thomas Grey, 1. Marquis Dorset Sir Andrew Trollop Archbishop John Morton Edward Plantagenet, E. of Warwick John Talbot, 2. E. Shrewsbury John Talbot, 3. E. Shrewsbury John de la Pole, 2. Duke of Suffolk John de la Pole, E. of Lincoln Edmund de la Pole, E. of Suffolk Richard de la Pole John Sutton, Baron Dudley James Butler, 5. Earl of Ormonde Sir James Tyrell Edmund Grey, first Earl of Kent George Grey, 2nd Earl of Kent John, 5th Baron Scrope of Bolton James Touchet, 7th Baron Audley Walter Blount, Lord Mountjoy Robert Hungerford, Lord Moleyns Thomas, Lord Scales John, Lord Lovel and Holand Francis Lovell, Viscount Lovell Sir Richard Ratcliffe William Catesby Ralph, 4th Lord Cromwell Jack Cade's Rebellion, 1450 Tudor Period King Henry VII Queen Elizabeth of York Arthur, Prince of Wales Lambert Simnel Perkin Warbeck The Battle of Blackheath, 1497 King Ferdinand II of Aragon Queen Isabella of Castile Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor King Henry VIII Queen Catherine of Aragon Queen Anne Boleyn Queen Jane Seymour Queen Anne of Cleves Queen Catherine Howard Queen Katherine Parr King Edward VI Queen Mary I Queen Elizabeth I Henry Fitzroy, Duke of Richmond Margaret Tudor, Queen of Scotland James IV, King of Scotland The Battle of Flodden Field, 1513 James V, King of Scotland Mary of Guise, Queen of Scotland Mary Tudor, Queen of France Louis XII, King of France Francis I, King of France The Battle of the Spurs, 1513 Field of the Cloth of Gold, 1520 Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor Eustace Chapuys, Imperial Ambassador The Siege of Boulogne, 1544 Cardinal Thomas Wolsey Archbishop Thomas Cranmer Thomas Cromwell, Earl of Essex Thomas, Lord Audley Thomas Wriothesley, E. Southampton Sir Richard Rich Edward Stafford, D. of Buckingham Thomas Howard, 2nd Duke of Norfolk Thomas Howard, 3rd Duke of Norfolk John Dudley, Duke of Northumberland Charles Brandon, Duke of Suffolk Thomas Boleyn, Earl of Wiltshire George Boleyn, Viscount Rochford John Russell, Earl of Bedford Thomas Grey, 2. Marquis of Dorset Henry Grey, D. of Suffolk Charles Somerset, Earl of Worcester George Talbot, 4. E. Shrewsbury Francis Talbot, 5. E. Shrewsbury Henry Algernon Percy,      5th Earl of Northumberland Henry Algernon Percy,      6th Earl of Northumberland Ralph Neville, 4. E. Westmorland Henry Neville, 5. E. Westmorland William Paulet, Marquis of Winchester Sir Francis Bryan Sir Nicholas Carew John de Vere, 15th Earl of Oxford John de Vere, 16th Earl of Oxford Thomas Seymour, Lord Admiral Edward Seymour, Protector Somerset Margaret Pole, Countess of Salisbury Henry Pole, Lord Montague Sir Geoffrey Pole Thomas Manners, Earl of Rutland Henry Manners, Earl of Rutland Henry Bourchier, 2. Earl of Essex Robert Radcliffe, 1. Earl of Sussex Henry Radcliffe, 2. Earl of Sussex George Hastings, Earl of Huntingdon Henry Courtenay, Marquis of Exeter George Neville, Baron Bergavenny Sir Edward Neville William, Lord Paget William Sandys, Baron Sandys William Fitzwilliam, E. Southampton Sir Anthony Browne Sir Thomas Wriothesley Sir William Kingston George Brooke, Lord Cobham Sir Richard Southwell Thomas Fiennes, 9th Lord Dacre Sir Francis Weston Henry Norris Lady Jane Grey Sir Thomas Arundel Sir Richard Sackville Sir William Petre Sir John Cheke Walter Haddon, L.L.D Sir Peter Carew Sir John Mason Nicholas Wotton John Taylor Sir Thomas Wyatt, the Younger Cardinal Lorenzo Campeggio Cardinal Reginald Pole Stephen Gardiner, Bishop of Winchester Edmund Bonner, Bishop of London Nicholas Ridley, Bishop of London John Hooper, Bishop of Gloucester John Aylmer, Bishop of London Thomas Linacre William Grocyn Archbishop William Warham Cuthbert Tunstall, Bishop of Durham Richard Fox, Bishop of Winchester Edward Fox, Bishop of Hereford Pope Julius II Pope Leo X Pope Clement VII Pope Paul III Pope Pius V Pico della Mirandola Desiderius Erasmus Martin Bucer Richard Pace Christopher Saint-German Thomas Tallis Elizabeth Barton, the Nun of Kent Hans Holbein, the Younger The Sweating Sickness Dissolution of the Monasteries Pilgrimage of Grace, 1536 Robert Aske Anne Askew Lord Thomas Darcy Sir Robert Constable Oath of Supremacy The Act of Supremacy, 1534 The First Act of Succession, 1534 The Third Act of Succession, 1544 The Ten Articles, 1536 The Six Articles, 1539 The Second Statute of Repeal, 1555 The Act of Supremacy, 1559 Articles Touching Preachers, 1583 Queen Elizabeth I William Cecil, Lord Burghley Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury Sir Francis Walsingham Sir Nicholas Bacon Sir Thomas Bromley Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester Ambrose Dudley, Earl of Warwick Henry Carey, Lord Hunsdon Sir Thomas Egerton, Viscount Brackley Sir Francis Knollys Katherine "Kat" Ashley Lettice Knollys, Countess of Leicester George Talbot, 6. E. of Shrewsbury Elizabeth, Countess of Shrewsbury Gilbert Talbot, 7. E. of Shrewsbury Sir Henry Sidney Sir Robert Sidney Archbishop Matthew Parker Walter Devereux, 1st Earl of Essex Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex Penelope Devereux, Lady Rich Sir Christopher Hatton Edward Courtenay, E. Devonshire Edward Manners, 3rd Earl of Rutland Thomas Radcliffe, 3. Earl of Sussex Henry Radcliffe, 4. Earl of Sussex Robert Radcliffe, 5. Earl of Sussex William Parr, Marquis of Northampton Henry Wriothesley, 2. Southampton Henry Wriothesley, 3. Southampton Charles Neville, 6. E. Westmorland Thomas Percy, 7. E. Northumberland Henry Percy, 8. E. Northumberland Henry Percy, 9. E. Nothumberland William Herbert, 1. Earl of Pembroke Charles, Lord Howard of Effingham Thomas Howard, 4th Duke of Norfolk Henry Howard, 1. Earl of Northampton Thomas Howard, 1. Earl of Suffolk Henry Hastings, 3. E. of Huntingdon Edward Manners, 3rd Earl of Rutland Roger Manners, 5th Earl of Rutland Francis Manners, 6th Earl of Rutland Henry FitzAlan, 12. Earl of Arundel Thomas, Earl Arundell of Wardour Edward Somerset, E. of Worcester William Davison Sir Walter Mildmay Sir Ralph Sadler Sir Amyas Paulet Gilbert Gifford Anthony Browne, Viscount Montague François, Duke of Alençon & Anjou Mary, Queen of Scots Henry Stuart, Lord Darnley James Hepburn, Earl of Bothwell Anthony Babington and the Babington Plot John Knox Philip II of Spain The Spanish Armada, 1588 Sir Francis Drake Sir John Hawkins William Camden Archbishop Whitgift Martin Marprelate Controversy John Penry (Martin Marprelate) Richard Bancroft, Archbishop of Canterbury John Dee, Alchemist Philip Henslowe Edward Alleyn The Blackfriars Theatre The Fortune Theatre The Rose Theatre The Swan Theatre Children's Companies The Admiral's Men The Lord Chamberlain's Men Citizen Comedy The Isle of Dogs, 1597 Common Law Court of Common Pleas Court of King's Bench Court of Star Chamber Council of the North Fleet Prison Assize Attainder First Fruits & Tenths Livery and Maintenance Oyer and terminer Praemunire The Stuarts King James I of England Anne of Denmark Henry, Prince of Wales The Gunpowder Plot, 1605 George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham Robert Carr, Earl of Somerset Arabella Stuart, Lady Lennox William Alabaster Bishop Hall Bishop Thomas Morton Archbishop William Laud John Selden Lucy Harington, Countess of Bedford Henry Lawes King Charles I Queen Henrietta Maria Long Parliament Rump Parliament Kentish Petition, 1642 Thomas Wentworth, Earl of Strafford John Digby, Earl of Bristol George Digby, 2nd Earl of Bristol Thomas Fairfax, 3rd Lord Fairfax Robert Devereux, 3rd E. of Essex Robert Sidney, 2. E. of Leicester Algernon Percy, E. of Northumberland Henry Montagu, Earl of Manchester Edward Montagu, 2. Earl of Manchester The Restoration King Charles II King James II Test Acts Greenwich Palace Hatfield House Richmond Palace Windsor Palace Woodstock Manor The Cinque Ports Mermaid Tavern Malmsey Wine Great Fire of London, 1666 Merchant Taylors' School Westminster School The Sanctuary at Westminster "Sanctuary" Images: Chart of the English Succession from William I through Henry VII Medieval English Drama London c1480, MS Royal 16 London, 1510, the earliest view in print Map of England from Saxton's Descriptio Angliae, 1579 Location Map of Elizabethan London Plan of the Bankside, Southwark, in Shakespeare's time Detail of Norden's Map of the Bankside, 1593 Bull and Bear Baiting Rings from the Agas Map (1569-1590, pub. 1631) Sketch of the Swan Theatre, c. 1596 Westminster in the Seventeenth Century, by Hollar Visscher's Panoramic View of London, 1616. COLOR c. 1690. View of London Churches, after the Great Fire The Yard of the Tabard Inn from Thornbury, Old and New London Site copyright ©1996-2010 Anniina Jokinen. All Rights Reserved.
