#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Accredited_Online_Christian_Colleges_How_to_Choose_a_School.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Religious_Studies/Jewish_Studies.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/PhD_in_Human_Behavior_Program_Overview.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Religious_Studies/Islamic_Studies.html
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_Bachelor_of_Arts_in_Christian_Studies_with_an_Emphasis_in_Biblical_Studies.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Accredited Online Christian Colleges: How to Choose a School
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Religious Studies  /  Christian Studies Liberal Arts and Humanities Religious Studies Biblical Studies Buddhist Studies Islamic Studies Jewish Studies Missionary Studies Pastoral Studies Religious Music Studies Theology and Religious Vocations Youth Ministry Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Articles about Online Education  /  Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Accredited Online Christian Colleges:... Accredited Online Christian Colleges: How to Choose a School Learn about important considerations when selecting an online accredited Christian school. Keep reading to get an overview of the program options, personal faith factors, and common levels offered for fields of study. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools How to Select an Online Accredited Christian School Students considering online accredited Christian schools must make their decision based on several key factors. There are almost as many choices in accredited degree programs from online Christian colleges as there are from traditional on-campus programs. Finding the right college often isn't so much a matter of finding the best or most reputable Christian college as it is finding an institution and degree program that are the best fit for an individual student's interests and beliefs. Area of Study The first step for prospective students is to determine what sort of degree best fits with their career plans, and to decide what kind of institution best fits their personal temperament. Because Christian colleges are often much smaller than public universities, many of them have a very limited number of choices in degree programs and focuses. Some are seminaries that offer courses of study specifically in the Bible. Others offer traditional degree programs. The program a student chooses often limits their choices in what college they attend. Personal Compatibility Some Christian colleges are relatively strict and require their students to promise that they will not drink alcohol or participate in activities such as dancing while in college. Others are more liberal in their requirements, requiring only that they behave in a responsible manner while in college. Religious Beliefs Some colleges, though they are Christian colleges, invite students of all faiths to attend. Others require students to agree with a set of beliefs and doctrines in order to attend. Which university a student attends is often purely a matter of personal preference and of the institutional style they are comfortable with. Available Programs and Formats Degree Availability and Types Degrees from Christian colleges are often as varied as those from public universities, though often an online Christian college will not offer as wide a range of degree options as public colleges, and comparatively few Christian colleges offer associate's degrees via distance learning. Degrees are offered at the bachelor's, master's and doctoral levels. Examples include: Bachelor of Arts Master of Arts Master of Divinity Doctor of Ministry Doctor of Religious Studies Show me 10 popular schools Related to Accredited Online Christian Colleges: How to Choose a School RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles How to Choose Your College Major Video Self-Assessments for Choosing a Career Path Video Christian Art Colleges Christian Online Distance Learning College Degree Christian School Administrator Online Education in Pastoral Christian Studies Christian College Colorado Career Information for a Degree in Christian Studies Degrees in Christian studies typically cover scriptures, theology and history. Find out about the curricula of these programs,... Bachelor of Arts (BA): Youth Christian Studies Degree Overview A Bachelor of Arts degree program in youth Christian studies provides an academic framework for Christian study, theology and... Christian Ministry Degree Program Overviews Associate's, bachelor's and master's degree programs in Christian ministry offer varying levels of instruction, counsel and... Christian Studies Degree Program Information While establishing a career with a religion degree can pose a challenge, a degree in Christian studies can function as a source... Minister: Educational Requirements and Career Profile Christian College Florida Christian Universities Christian Doctoral Program Options Master's Degree in Worship Studies: Program Information Pastoral Counseling Degree Program Overviews Careers in Mass Communications: Job Options and Requirements How to Become a Marine Biologist: Education and Career Roadmap Online Graduate Degrees in Political Science: Program Options Yoga Teacher Training Via Distance Education Pastoral Administration Certificate and Degree Program Summaries How to Become a Christian Minister: Education and Career Roadmap What Skills Are Needed to Be a Doctor? Marketing Manager: Career Info & Requirements PhD in Telecommunications Degree Program Overview Bachelor of Information Technology BIT Computer Systems Degree Overview Roseville, California (CA) Colleges Bachelor of Arts BA Accounting Degree Overview Masters in CIS Program Overviews Forensic Science Undergraduate Programs PhD in Human Behavior Program Overview Linux Plus Certification and Training Program Information Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Christian Ministry Master MS in Christian Counseling MS in Christian Counseling of Substance Use & Addictive Disorders MA in Christian Studies: Youth Ministry Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Global Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Christian Leadership Master of Divinity Bachelor Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies BA in Christian Studies BA in Christian Studies - Worship Leadership B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Global Ministry B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Philosophy Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2Kaplan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED 🌟 Graduate faster & save money with Study.com transfer credit 🌟 Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Liberal Studies BS in Liberal Studies Leadership Get Started with Kaplan University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school 3Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA General Studies Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of General Studies Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 5Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 6Wayland Baptist University School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at Wayland Baptist University include: Graduate: Master Non-Degree: Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Christian Studies Missionary Studies Religious Music Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Get Started with Wayland Baptist University Research Wayland Baptist University's Programs 7Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Professional and Liberal Studies Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8Ursuline College School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at Ursuline College include: Graduate: Doctorate, Master Non-Degree: Coursework, Diploma Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Religious Studies Christian Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Get Started with Ursuline College Research Ursuline College's Programs 9University of Notre Dame School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Notre Dame include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Christian Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Get Started with University of Notre Dame Research University of Notre Dame's Degree Programs 10University of Mary School Info Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Mary include: Graduate: Doctorate, Master Non-Degree: Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Religious Studies Christian Studies Religious Music Studies Theology and Religious Vocations Social Science and Studies Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Get Started with University of Mary Research University of Mary's Degree Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Select your specialty subject area Biblical Studies Buddhist Studies Christian Studies Islamic Studies Jewish Studies Missionary Studies Pastoral Studies Religious Music Studies Theology and Religious Vocations Youth Ministry What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Grand Canyon University Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Christian Ministry MS in Christian Counseling MS in Christian Counseling of Substance Use & Addictive Disorders MA in Christian Studies: Youth Ministry Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Global Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Christian Leadership Master of Divinity Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies BA in Christian Studies BA in Christian Studies - Worship Leadership B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Global Ministry B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Philosophy View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 2 Kaplan University BS in Liberal Studies BS in Liberal Studies Leadership Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 3 Southern New Hampshire University BA General Studies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4 Baker College Online Bachelor of General Studies When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 5 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 6 Wayland Baptist University 7 Saint Joseph's University BS in Professional and Liberal Studies During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8 Ursuline College 9 University of Notre Dame 10 University of Mary Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
