#ThisURL#
http://thefactsnow.com/
#SubURL#
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/142029133918/RnoD6gKl
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/133554211548/yua4uPSv
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/141048554053/Lf1KGuFz
mailto:info@thefactsnow.com
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/133074723967/k1DnLrsj
https://www.facebook.com/thefactsnow
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/142425047083/icNlvt29
https://twitter.com/thefactsnow
http://thefactsnow.com/#contact
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/132165252579/FsHwcxTw
http://thefactsnow.com/#about-us
http://thefactsnow.com/#
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/131772081268/Jz2OBE09
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/134488208307/1NjsYwda
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/132680808095/85r9iy3J
https://instagram.com/thefactsnow
https://www.tumblr.com/reblog/135007211717/LqSkUvfS
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/privacy-policy
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCr86VuBMwlcxx3-q2lxy75w
#Title#
THE FACTS NOW
#Content#
View All Random Facts The Traps True Stories The Tricks The Effects NOW / Tobacco Free Florida View All Random Facts The Traps True Stories The Tricks The Effects Let's Connect: DON’T BE FOOLED BY PRETENDERS E-cigs aren’t against Big Tobacco. Some of them actually receive financial support and marketing advice from tobacco companies. It’s not a surprise that the three e-cigarette brands that spent the most on advertising are all owned by the biggest tobacco companies. Their ads reached about 49 million people ages 13-24 in 2014 alone. (1) Are they marketing to teens or are they just bad at advertising? In just two years, from 2013 to 2015, the number of Florida high school students using e-cigarettes tripled. (2) Studies show that if you’ve never tried regular cigarettes and you try e-cigarettes, there’s now a greater chance you’ll smoke regular ones. (3)(4)That’s because nicotine is highly addictive. (5) You getting hooked on any product means more money for Big Tobacco. In fact, a tobacco company executive once stated: “We are basically in the nicotine business.” (6)Another one said: “I believe the thing we sell most is nicotine.” (7) History repeats itself. The question is: are you going to let it? IT’S ONLY A MATTER OF TIME It won’t take long before the effects of smoking load onto your system and eventually lead to diseases. You might think cigarette smoking won’t affect you until much later in life. And maybe you think you’ll just quit before it catches up to you. Well, it’s most likely not going to work out that way, sorry. Only one of every three young smokers will ever quit. That leaves two long-term smokers, and one of them will end up dying from a tobacco-related disease. (1) You read right; that’s half of all long-term smokers. At the current rate, 5.6 million people who are currently under age 18 will die prematurely because of smoking. You only live once, right? Well, you don’t want to live while dying from a tobacco-related disease like cancer or stroke. (2) SPOILER ALERT: LOT’S OF PEOPLE DIE. There’s not much suspense with tobacco. If you smoke, you might be one of the 480,00 tobacco-related deaths per year. Let’s scale that down. While you’re watching a one-hour episode of your favorite show, about 87 people die because of cigarette smoking. (1)And for every person who dies, about 30 more are suffering with at least one serious illness caused by smoking. (1)Like cancer, COPD, heart disease, stroke, lung disease, and diabetes. (1) Teens all over the world are using this deadly product that will forever change their lives. Dramatic … but true. Wouldn’t want to stream that show. HOOKAH KEEPS IT 100 There’s nothing safer about hookah. A one-hour hookah session is like smoking 100 cigarettes. While you’re chilling for hours at the hookah lounge, you’re doing some major damage to your lungs. The amount of smoke you inhale in a one-hour hookah session is equal to smoking 100 or more cigarettes. (1) That’s like inhaling the amount of smoke from five packs of cigarettes. Many people think that hookah is safer than cigarettes but the facts say otherwise. The smoke from one hookah session contains 46 times the tar and about 3-6 times the carbon monoxide as the smoke from a single cigarette. (2)If you’re still not convinced, most of the tobacco used for hookah contains many of the same cancer-causing chemicals and pretty much the same amount of nicotine as the tobacco in cigarettes. (3) Did we forget to mention that sharing a hookah mouthpiece can spread infectious diseases like herpes and hepatitis? (4) Zero to one hundred, real quick. SOMETHING SMELLS OFF Big Tobacco markets smoking to women as a way to make them feel more attractive, but this is a lie. Don’t fall for it. Big Tobacco defined a woman by saying she “lacks control of her life” and “feels vulnerable.” (1)They said women are “vulnerable” enough to fall for ads that “attempt to associate smoking with independence, attractiveness, and sophistication.” (2) Are you going to support an industry that says that about you or your friends? If that’s not reason enough, consider the fact that cigarettes are responsible for 90 percent of lung cancer deaths among women. (3) And the numbers keep increasing. For the first time in 50 years, the risk of women developing smoking-related diseases, like lung cancer and COPD, is equal to that of men. Every year, more than 200,000 women die in the U.S. because of a tobacco-related disease. (4) So tell Big Tobacco, we’re not buying it. DON’T ELECT SMOKING The nation needs a change. Nearly 9 out of 10 lung cancers are caused by smoking. If you’re voting in your first election, your lungs probably haven’t even stopped growing. They continue to grow until you’re in your late teens or early 20s. So if you smoke when you’re young, your lungs may never grow to their potential size and never perform at full capacity. Even if you quit eventually, early lung damage isn’t completely irreversible – at least not in most cases. (1) So some of the damage is done. The worst lung damage smoking can cause is cancer. In fact, the number-one cancer killer is lung cancer. (2)And lung cancer risk for smokers has risen dramatically since the 1950s, while the risk for people who never smoked has stayed about the same. (2) In other words, today’s cigarettes are deadlier than they were about 50 years ago. So before you elect cigarettes, make sure you understand the issues. TRUE STORY - FROM A TOBACCO EXECUTIVE. By now, almost everyone knows that cigarettes are addictive. Well, back in the day – 1994, to be exact – the top executives of the seven largest American tobacco companies lied under oath to Congress claiming they didn’t “believe” cigarette were addictive. By now, almost everyone knows that cigarettes are addictive. Well, back in the day – 1994, to be exact – the top executives of the seven largest American tobacco companies lied under oath to Congress claiming they didn’t “believe” cigarette were addictive.(1) (1) Apparently, not all executives were in on the lie. A former tobacco industry executive was quoted that same year saying, “Of course it’s addictive. That’s why you smoke the stuff.” (2) But Big Tobacco chose the thug life; the thug life didn’t choose them. BIG TOBACCO DOESN’T DISCRIMINATE. Right now, tobacco companies continue to target the LGBT community with their marketing efforts, which results in 30,000 deaths per year. Cigarette smoking rates among LGBT individuals in the United States are much higher compared to the total population. (1)(2)The tobacco industry uses this to its advantage by aggressively marketing their deadly products through ads in LGBT publications, and promotions at LGBT nightclubs and bar, and by “supporting” events like pride festivals. (3)(4)The most notorious marketing campaign was called Project SCUM (Sub-Culture Urban Marketing), an R.J. Reynolds targeting strategy aimed at gay men and homeless people in San Francisco. (5) Big Tobacco pretends they care about the LGBT community. But all they care about is recruiting new customers. After all, they need to replace the 1,300 Americans who die every day because of cigarette smoking. (6) TRUE STORY: Right now, in the U.S, kids as young as 7 are suffering from nicotine poisoning… and all they’re doing is working in tobacco farms. If it’s this dangerous to harvest it, imagine how dangerous it is smoking it. Imagine not having any free time after school or on the weekends and then working 60 hours a week during summer break. That’s how kids who are working in tobacco fields in the United States spend their time. Kids ages 7 to 17 are working 50-60 hours a week in extreme heat while suffering with flu-like symptoms from acute nicotine poisoning. (1)Symptoms include dizziness, nausea, vomiting and headaches. (2)Some kids work close enough to areas being sprayed with pesticides to feel the spray on their skin, which can cause itchy skin, shortness of breath, redness and swelling of the mouth, vomiting, dizziness, headaches, and burning of the eyes and nose. (3) Even when they’re sick, many of these kids are forced to continue working and are often denied drinking water, bathroom breaks or protective clothing. And this is happening right here in our country. 90 percent of U.S. tobacco is cultivated in four states: North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia. (4) ESSENTIALS: INHALER, ELECTRO-LARYNX, WIG, FAKE LEG, OXYGEN MASK, HEARING AID, EYE PATCH, DENTURES. If you start smoking right now these may be your accessories in the near future. Right now, a pack of cigarettes isn’t something you mind carrying around. But if you continue smoking, it may not be the only thing you’ll have to take everywhere with you. You may end up needing an inhaler or an oxygen tank for a number of respiratory diseases, a walking stick because you’ve lost your sight, insulin to keep your diabetes in check, or even an electro larynx so you can speak after you’ve lost your voice box from cancer. (1) The choice is yours. BIG TOBACCO BELIEVES THE CHILDREN ARE THEIR FUTURE. Right now, for every smoker who dies, 2 teens or young adults become regular smokers. At that rate a lot of today’s youth will never see the future. In fact, if cigarette smoking rates stay the same, 5.6 million of today’s kids who are now younger than 18 will eventually die early from a smoking-related disease. (1) Cigarettes kill half of all long-term smokers. (2) Big Tobacco knows this. So in order to stay in business, they need to look to the future: you. It’s no coincidence that nearly 9 out of 10 smokers start by age 18 and 99 percent by age 26. (3) Big tobacco cares about the future, even if it means cutting yours short. THE MOMENT YOU FIND OUT SMOKING CAN REDUCE YOUR LUNG FUNCTION IN THE YEARS TO COME. You’re not scared, right? You think that smoking won’t affect you until much later in life and that way before that even happens, you will have quit. Think again. Lungs continue to grow until you’re in your late teens or early 20s. So if you smoke when you’re young, your lungs may never grow to their potential size and never perform at full capacity. Quitting smoking once you’re older won’t undo all of the lung damage – at least not in most cases. (1)Research also shows that smoking as a teen and young adult leads to early signs of heart disease. (2) THE MOMENT YOU FIND OUT NICOTINE IS JUST AS ADDICTIVE AS COCAINE AND HEROIN. That’s right and that makes nicotine one of the most addictive drugs known to man. Bruuh! Each drug might enter your body in different ways, but they all lead to addiction (1)(2)As with heroin and cocaine, you become dependent on nicotine soon after you pick up smoking. (1)(2) Tobacco is also deadlier, by far. In 2013, about 5,100 people died from cocaine overdose and more than 8,000 from heroin overdose. (3) Meanwhile, 480,000 Americans die every year because of cigarette smoking. And in case you forgot, it’s the only one legally sold in the U.S. BURN, BABY, BURN! The chemical compounds used to create cigarettes help them burn hotter than ever before. Imagine what they do to your insides… Why would tobacco companies want cigarettes to burn faster? The faster cigarettes burn, the more cigarettes you smoke. More cigarettes means you’re consuming more nicotine leading to an even stronger addiction. The more you’re addicted, the more cigarettes you smoke and the longer you remain a customer. At the end of day, this vicious cycle is really all about more sales and bigger profits for Big Tobacco. It’s also a trick to make cigarettes seem safer. When a cigarette burns faster, meaning fewer puffs are needed to finish, the tar and nicotine levels appear lower to the smoking robots used to test cigarettes. (1) Cigarettes are the only legal product in the United States that kill when used exactly as intended. So why bother actually making the product safer? Especially if profit is more important to you than the health and the lives of your many, many customers. Worldwide, nearly 6 million people die because of cigarette smoking each year. (2) WANNA SEE A SMOKE TRICK RIGHT NOW? When burned, cigarettes release over 7,000 chemicals. About 250 are toxic and about 70 can cause cancer. Breathe that in. Some additives in cigarettes aren’t cancer-causing on their own. But when lit on fire, the chemical compounds react to the heat and produce carcinogens. With each puff of a cigarette, you inhale about 70 of these cancer-causing chemicals. (1)One of those chemicals is Polonium 210, which is radioactive and very toxic. (2) You probably wouldn’t expose yourself to something radioactive knowing it could cause cancer. Smoking cigarettes shouldn’t be any different. And even if you don’t smoke, all of those cancer-causing chemicals are in secondhand smoke too. (2) contact us E-Mail Successfully Sent Send Message » *Legal notice: Under Florida law, email addresses are public records. If you do not want your email address released in response to a public records request, do not send electronic mail to this entity. Instead, contact this office by phone or in writing. For media inquiries, please contact: info@thefactsnow.com Connect with us: Facebook » Twitter » about us The tobacco companies have a business to run and if they want to make tons of money, they need lots of people to smoke. Unfortunately, they sell a deadly product and they are losing 1,300 people a day who are dying because of smoking, not to mention all the people who are quitting. Where are they going to get new customers from? For decades, the tobacco industry has targeted teens as its replacement smokers, to “replace” those dying customers. They have a secret weapon and that is nicotine. They are counting on us to think we won’t get addicted. But they are one step ahead. They add chemicals to tobacco to make the nicotine even more addictive. What is worse is that they know it works on teens much better than adults. So as you are going through high school or middle school or college, hanging out, smoking cigarettes, know that you are falling right into the trap they have set. The deck is stacked against us. This is just the beginning. We have many more stories to tell you. We exist to give young people the facts the tobacco industry doesn’t want you to know so that you can make a real choice. Go ahead and check us out. We are going to give you the facts and give it to you straight. Help us spread the word. Smoking rates are lower than ever. Let’s be the first generation to make the right choice. THE FACTS NOW campaign is brought to you by the Florida Department of Health’s Tobacco Free Florida program. © 2016 Tobacco Free Florida, All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Contact | About Us Follow Follow us:
