#ThisURL#
http://www.geeksquad.com/terms-of-use.aspx
#SubURL#
https://www-ssl.bestbuy.com/usw/repairstatus/home
http://www.geeksquad.com/services/smart-home/
http://www.geeksquad.com/more-sites/partner-sites/
http://www.geeksquad.com/terms-of-use.aspx
http://www.geeksquad.com/do-it-yourself/tools/scan-for-viruses-and-spyware.aspx
http://www.geeksquad.com/contact.aspx
http://www.geeksquad.com/scheduling
http://www.geeksquad.com/pin
http://www.geeksquad.com/scheduling/
http://www.geeksquad.com/more-sites/geek-squad-sites/
http://www.geeksquad.com/terms-of-use.aspx#skipcontent
http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/internet-explorer/products/ie/home
http://www.twitter.com/GeekSquad
http://www.mozilla.com/en-US/firefox/new/
http://pr.bby.com/
http://www.google.com/chrome
http://www.bestbuy.com/recycling
mailto:dmca.agent@bestbuy.com
http://privacy.truste.com/privacy-seal/Best-Buy-Co-,-Inc-/validation?rid=c173fce2-66ef-4aa5-98e9-bd0087d88969
http://feeds.feedburner.com/geeksquad/UTfl
http://www.bestbuy.com/tradein
http://support.geeksquad.com/support/
http://www.facebook.com/GeekSquad
http://www.bestbuy.com/aarp/
http://www.apple.com/safari/download/
http://join.geeksquad.com/
http://www.youtube.com/user/GeekSquadHQ
#Title#
Terms of Use
#Content#
My Geek Squad My Account Track Your Repair Find a Location Schedule a Service Express Replacement Chat with an Agent Top Secret Passcode View All Search Results Categories Support Plans Self Help Chat With an Agent Schedule a Service Track Your Repair Computers Home Theater Portable & Mobile Car & GPS Appliances Networking & Data Smart Home Geek Squad® Protection Plans that cover repair & service 24/7 Support Get unlimited answers via online, phone & in store Internet Security Software Protection against virus, spyware & malware Tech Support Access your Tech Support membership Resources & Tools How-to videos, advice & useful tools. Tech Tips Step-by-step instructions for the do-it-yourselfer. Geek Squad Intelligence Blog News & Best Practices from Our Network of Agents. Skip to Content Home / Legal Terms of Use Legal Terms of Use Welcome to the Geek Squad® website. By using it you agree to be bound by its legal notices (explained below) and all disclaimers and terms and conditions that appear elsewhere on the Geek Squad website. The policies of Geek Squad service establishments may differ substantially from those applicable to your use of the Geek Squad website. Geek Squad reserves the right to change its legal notices at any time. Each time you use the Geek Squad website, you should review the legal notices that apply to use of this site. If you are dissatisfied with the site's Content or the legal notices, you agree that your sole and exclusive remedy is to discontinue using the Geek Squad website. Tampering with the site, misrepresenting a user’s identity, using buying agents, or conducting fraudulent activities on the site is prohibited. Right to Download You may download Content displayed on the Geek Squad website for noncommercial personal use, provided you also retain all copyright, trademark, and other proprietary notices contained in the material, do not modify or alter the material, and do not copy or post the material on any network computer or broadcast the material in any media. Modifying, transmitting, distributing, reusing, reposting, "framing" or using the Content of the Geek Squad website (including text, images, audio and/or video) for public or commercial purposes without written permission from an authorized Geek Squad representative is strictly prohibited. Proprietary Rights All Content included on or comprising the Geek Squad website — including information, data, software, photographs, graphs, videos, typefaces, graphics, music, sounds, and other material (“Content") is protected by copyright, trademark, patent, or other proprietary rights; these rights are valid and protected in all forms, media, and technologies existing now or developed in the future. All Content is copyrighted as a collective work under U.S. and international copyright laws, and Geek Squad owns, to the fullest extent allowed by such laws, the copyright in the selection, coordination, arrangement, and enhancement of all Content. Except as expressly authorized or licensed, you may not copy, modify, remove, delete, augment, add to, publish, or transmit; participate in the transfer or sale, lease or rental of; or create derivative works from or in any way exploit any of the Content, in whole or in part. Geek Squad logos and other trademarks on the site are the property of their respective owners and are owned by, licensed to, or, where required, used with permission by Geek Squad and may not be reproduced, copied, or manipulated in any manner without the express written approval of the trademark owner. By using the Geek Squad website, you agree that all information, materials, suggestions, ideas, or comments (including testimonials) you send to Geek Squad or any third party using the Geek Squad website are non-confidential. By submitting solicited or unsolicited information using the Geek Squad website, you grant Geek Squad an irrevocable and unrestricted license to use, modify, reproduce, transmit, display, and distribute such materials, information, suggestions, ideas or comments for any purpose whatsoever to the extent permitted by law. Applicable Law The Geek Squad website is created, operated, and controlled by Geek Squad in the state of Minnesota, United States of America. Minnesota state laws will govern legal notices without giving effect to any principles of conflicts of law. Links to Third-Party Websites The Geek Squad website contains links to other sites operated by third parties, including but not limited to third-party sites that display the Geek Squad trademarks. These links are available for your convenience and are intended only to enable access to these third-party sites and for no other purpose. Geek Squad does not warrant or make any representation about the substance, quality, functionality, accuracy, fitness for a particular purpose, merchantability, or any other representation about any third-party site or its Content. A link to a third-party site on the Geek Squad website does not constitute sponsorship, endorsement, approval, or responsibility. Geek Squad makes no representation or warranty as to any products or services offered on any third-party site. Conditions of use and privacy policies for third-party sites may differ substantially from the legal notices that apply to your use of the Geek Squad website. Please review the conditions of use for all third-party sites for more information about the terms and conditions that apply to them. Security The Geek Squad website may only be used for lawful purposes. Activities including—but not limited to—tampering with the site, misrepresenting the identity of a user, using buying agents, or conducting fraudulent activities on the site are prohibited. Users are prohibited from violating or attempting to violate Geek Squad website security, including, without limitation, (a) accessing data not intended for such user; (b) using the website for unintended purposes or trying to change the site’s behavior; (c) attempting to probe, scan, or test system or network vulnerability or breach security or authentication measures without proper authorization; (d) attempting to interfere with service to any user, host, or network, including, without limitation, submitting a virus to the site, overloading, "flooding," "spamming," "mail bombing," or "crashing"; (f) forging any TCP/IP packet header or any part of the header information in any e-mail or newsgroup posting; or (g) forging communications on behalf of the website (i.e., impersonating the Geek Squad website) or to the website (i.e., impersonating a legitimate user). Sending unsolicited and unauthorized eMail on behalf of Geek Squad, including promotions and/or advertising of products or services, is expressly prohibited. System or network security violations may result in civil or criminal liability. You agree not to use any device, software, routine, or data to interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the Geek Squad website or any activity being conducted on this site. You agree, further, not to use or attempt to use any engine, software, tool, agent, data or other device or mechanism (including without limitation browsers, spiders, robots, avatars, or intelligent agents) to navigate or search the Geek Squad website other than the search engine and search agents provided by Geek Squad or generally publicly available browsers. Export Certain software or other materials that you may download from the Geek Squad website may be further subject to United States Export Controls. No software from the Geek Squad website may be downloaded or exported contrary to any applicable export law, including but not limited to any applicable prohibitions against download or export as follows: 1) into (or to a national or resident of) Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Syria, or any other country to which the United States has embargoed goods; or 2) anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Commerce Department's Table of Deny Orders. By downloading or using Software downloaded from the Geek Squad website, you agree to abide by the applicable laws, rules and regulations—including, but not limited to the Export Administration Act and the Arms Export Control Act—and you represent and warrant that you will not transfer, by electronic transmission or otherwise, this Software to a foreign national or a foreign destination in violation of the law. Notification of Copyright Infringement Under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act If you believe that your copyrighted material may have been infringed, please provide Best Buy's® Copyright Agent with the following information in writing: A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. Identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site. Identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material. Information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact the complaining party, such as an address, telephone number, and if available, an e-mail address at which the complaining party may be contacted. A statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law. A statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that the complaining party is authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. Best Buy's designated agent to receive notifications of claimed infringement can be reached by: Mail: DMCA Agent Best Buy Enterprise Services, Inc. B6-Legal Dept. 7601 Penn Ave. S. Richfield, MN 55423 E-mail: dmca.agent@bestbuy.com Fax: 612-292-2323 Phone: 612-291-1000 For additional information regarding this procedure, please reference 17 USC 512. Owner and Operator of the Geek Squad Website Best Buy Stores, L.P., a subsidiary of Best Buy Co., Inc., owns and operates the Geek Squad website. Geek Squad is a registered trademark of Best Buy Enterprise Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Best Buy Co., Inc. Geek Squad refers to a line of computer and technology services offered by Best Buy Stores, L.P. Contact: Web: http://www.geeksquad.com Mail: Geek Squad at Best Buy Stores, L.P. 7601 Penn Avenue South Richfield, MN 55423-3645. Phone: 1-800-GEEK SQUAD (433-5778) For Repair Services Provided in California An estimate as required (Section 9844 of the California Business and Professions Code) for repairs shall be given to the customer by Geek Squad in writing, and Geek Squad may not charge for work done or parts supplied in excess of the estimate without prior consent of the customer. Where provided in writing, Geek Squad may charge a reasonable fee for services provided to determine the nature of the malfunction when preparing a written estimate for repair. For information contact the Bureau of Electronic and Appliance Repair, Department of Consumer Affairs, Sacramento, CA 95814. California Master Registration Number: E 81713. Best Buy Stores, L.P., d/b/a Geek Squad, 7601 Penn Avenue South, Richfield, MN 55423-3645. Contact Geek Squad at 1-800-GEEK-SQUAD (1-800-433-5778). View All Search Results Go ahead. Use us. Popular Links Chat with an Agent Find a Location Schedule a Service Contact Us Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Subscribe Why Geek Squad About Us Why Choose Us Testimonials Meet Our Agents Pricing Our Guarantee Safety & Security Self Help Recycle My Electronics Trade Old Gear For Gift Cards Find Drivers and Updates Scan for Viruses and Spyware Test Your Broadband Speed Manufacturer Restore Discs Account Tools My Account Repair Status Protection Plans Join Phone Session Remote Login Careers News & Press Site Map Geek Squad Sites Partner Sites AARP Site Help Call 1-800-433-5778 Use of this site signifies your acceptance of the Legal Terms of Use, our Privacy Policy, California Privacy Rights and our process for handling Interest Based Ads. ©2016 Geek Squad. All Rights Reserved. There's no easy way to say this, but... Your Browser Is Holding You Back. It's Time To Move on. Click one of the icons below to upgrade to a new browser. No thanks, I understand this site may not display properly. It looks like you're using an older version of windows. To initiate a chat session with a Geek Squad Agent, you will need to have a supported version of Windows. Learn More Limited support is still available in-store. Schedule a Reservation
