#ThisURL#
http://study.com/investigation_training.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/criminal_investigation_degrees_in_fl.html
http://study.com/articles/Top_School_for_Becoming_a_Network_Administrator_-_Irving_Texas.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/articles/Online_Masters_Programs_What_are_the_Most_Popular_Masters_Degrees_Offered_Online.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=USW
http://study.com/articles/Colleges_with_Criminal_Investigation_Degrees_How_to_Choose.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Investigation Training Programs and Education Requirements
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Legal  /  Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections  /  Security and Theft Prevention Services Legal Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Corrections Admin Corrections, Probation, and Parole Criminal Justice and Safety Studies Criminal Science Forensic Science Juvenile Corrections Law Enforcement Administration Police Science and Law Enforcement Securities Services Mgmt Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Security and Theft Prevention Services  /  Investigation Training Programs and Education Requirements Investigation Training Programs and Education Requirements Often, law firms, insurance companies and corporations use investigators to research legal issues, conduct background checks, provide surveillance or perform audits. Private citizens may also hire a private detective for personal fact collecting investigations. There are no set educational requirements to become an investigator, but many private investigators have completed training programs in some avenue of criminal justice. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information While criminal investigation is common, there are other fields in need of investigators, such as computer forensics or financial fraud. Educational requirements vary by employer, but most investigators have a degree in their related field of investigation. Private investigators, for instance, may have a degree in criminal justice, while computer fraud investigators generally have a degree in computer science. Regardless of the specific area of investigation, general training in computers is helpful. Program Levels in FIELD OF STUDY: Bachelor's degree, Master's degrees and Certificate programs are available FIELD OF STUDY Program Fields: computer forensics or financial fraud Prerequisites: High School Diploma or equivalent Program Specializations: Law, Computer Science, Criminal Justice Program Length:4 year degree program Other Requirements: Most employers prefer to hire investigators with prior armed forces, loss prevention or corporate auditing experience --- Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice Investigators who majored in criminal justice often took classes in: Information Technology Research Methods. Law Enforcement, Security Management Criminal Law. Licenses and Certifications Many states require private investigators to be licensed; however, requirements vary by state. Also, most investigators must possess a valid driver's license. ASIS International (www.asisonline.org) offers a voluntary Professional Certified Investigator credential to individuals who meet minimum experience and, or, educational requirements and pass an exam. Similar voluntary certifications are available through organizations like the National Association of Legal Investigators (www.nalionline.org). Workshops and Seminars Various investigation organizations offer educational conferences, which typically last for several days. Attendees can participate in mini-workshops on topics ranging from digital picture-taking techniques to crime scene analysis. Seminars are also available and can last for a few hours to an entire day. Participants typically spend time learning about one particular topic, which often centers on either business or investigation strategies. Additional Professional Development To stay up-to-date on industry topics, professional investigators can subscribe to e-newsletters. Various websites are also available through state or national investigation organizations and may provide links to online databases, industry events or articles. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Investigation Training RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Health Inspector Video: Educational Requirements for a Career in Public Health Medical Examiner and Coroner Professions Video: Training and Educational Requirements Crime Scene Investigation Training Criminal Investigation Degrees in FL Crime Investigation Degree Criminal Investigation Degrees in Pompano Beach, FL Criminal Investigation Degree Program in Tampa Colleges with Criminal Investigation Degrees: How to Choose Criminal investigation is often part of the curriculum of criminal justice degree programs. Some schools also offer degree... Careers in Crime Investigation: Options and Requirements Training in crime investigation typically covers physical and written exams, background checks, and courses in investigation... Careers in Private Investigation: Job Options and Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a private investigator. Get a quick view of the requirements as well... Arson Investigation Schools and Colleges in the U.S. Programs are usually offered at the certificate or associate's degree levels, but some specialized training programs exist for... Forensic Investigation Schools: How to Choose Private Investigation School Distance Learning University Degrees in Crime Scene Investigation Bank Fraud Investigation Schools: How to Choose Policing & Investigation Masters Degree Program Information Best Schools for Crime Scene Investigation: Overview of Options Web Content Writer: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Should I Major in Computer Science? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Master of Information Systems: Online Degree Doctor of Divinity: Degree Program Information Crime Scene Investigation Certificate Program and Course Information How to Earn a Private Investigation License: Info & Requirements What Are the Most Popular Masters Degrees Offered Online? Online PhD in Theology: Distance Learning Doctorate Program Info How to Become a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Top University for a Degree in Information Technology - Anaheim CA Top School for Becoming a Network Administrator - Irving Texas Business School Top Ranked Business Degree Program - Sacramento CA Radiation Therapist Charleston Southern University Edu Top School with Psychology Degrees - Denver CO Top Computer Information Systems Degree Programs - Long Beach CA Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA/Social and Criminal Justice - Criminal Investigations Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration - Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Project Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor Bachelor of Science - Criminal Justice: Supervision and Management Concentration BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety Associate AS in Criminal Justice Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 3Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MSM in Emergency Management MS in Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice: Advanced Counterterrorism & Homeland Security concentration MS in Criminal Justice: Public Safety Administration concentration MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Florida (1 campus) Program Info Classroom-Based Programs Bachelor Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 5Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate PhD in Criminal Justice - Justice Administration-Advanced Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Criminal Justice (Course-based) PhD in Criminal Justice - Public Management and Leadership DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - Emergency Management PhD in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination Master Master of Public Administration in Criminal Justice Master of Public Policy - Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - General MS in Emergency Management - Global Leadership Master of Public Administration in Emergency Management Master of Public Policy - Emergency Management Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 6Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Certificate - Business Security Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 7Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Leadership: Disaster Preparedness & Executive Fire Leadership MS in Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement Bachelor BS in Public Safety and Emergency Management Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 8Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate DBA in Homeland Security Leadership & Policy DBA in Criminal Justice PhD in Business Administration - Homeland Security Leadership & Policy PhD in Business Administration - Criminal Justice Master MBA in Homeland Security Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Criminal Justice MBA in Criminal Justice Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 9University of the Southwest School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA - Law Enforcement & Corrections Get Started with University of the Southwest What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School 10Utica College School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Cybersecurity - Homeland Security and Emergency Management BS in Cybersecurity - Cybercrime and Fraud Investigation Get Started with Utica College What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 1 2 Next » Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Criminal Justice, Law Enforcement, and Corrections Fire Safety and Protection Legal Research and Professional Studies Legal Support Services Select your specialty subject area Corrections Admin Corrections, Probation, and Parole Criminal Justice and Safety Studies Criminal Science Forensic Science Juvenile Corrections Law Enforcement Administration Police Science and Law Enforcement Securities Services Mgmt Security and Theft Prevention Services What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University BA/Social and Criminal Justice - Criminal Investigations What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Herzing University Master of Business Administration - Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Project Management & Public Safety Leadership MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor of Science - Criminal Justice: Supervision and Management Concentration BS in Criminal Justice BS in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety AS in Criminal Justice What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 3 Southern New Hampshire University MSM in Emergency Management MS in Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice: Advanced Counterterrorism & Homeland Security concentration MS in Criminal Justice: Public Safety Administration concentration MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 4 Full Sail University Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 5 Walden University PhD in Criminal Justice - Justice Administration-Advanced Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Criminal Justice (Course-based) PhD in Criminal Justice - Public Management and Leadership DSW - Criminal Justice PhD in Criminal Justice - Emergency Management PhD in Criminal Justice - Homeland Security Policy and Coordination Master of Public Administration in Criminal Justice Master of Public Policy - Criminal Justice MS in Criminal Justice Leadership and Exec Mgmt - General MS in Emergency Management - Global Leadership Master of Public Administration in Emergency Management Master of Public Policy - Emergency Management View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 6 Penn Foster Career School Certificate - Business Security What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 7 Grand Canyon University MS in Leadership: Disaster Preparedness & Executive Fire Leadership MS in Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement BS in Public Safety and Emergency Management What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 8 Northcentral University DBA in Homeland Security Leadership & Policy DBA in Criminal Justice PhD in Business Administration - Homeland Security Leadership & Policy PhD in Business Administration - Criminal Justice MBA in Homeland Security Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Criminal Justice MBA in Criminal Justice View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 9 University of the Southwest MBA - Law Enforcement & Corrections What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma/GED Some College Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree or Higher Have Not Completed High School 10 Utica College BS in Cybersecurity - Homeland Security and Emergency Management BS in Cybersecurity - Cybercrime and Fraud Investigation What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
