#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/oscar-best-picture-academy-award-winners.html#tt0102926
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
#Title#
Oscar: Best Picture Academy Award Winners to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Oscar: Best Picture Academy Award Winners Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy The Academy Awards or The Oscars is an annual awards ceremony overseen by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. The winners (in 24 categories) are awarded a copy of an Oscar statuette (officially the Academy Award of Merit). Best Picture is probably the most important of the Academy Awards, combining all aspects of film making. This award historically was named Outstanding Picture, Outstanding Production, Outstanding Motion Picture, and Best Motion Picture. The following list includes all Best Picture award winners since the very first ceremony in 1929. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 Spotlight November 2015 Break the story. Break the silence. Director: Thomas McCarthy. Cast: Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Brian d'Arcy James, Billy Crudup, Jamey Sheridan, Len Cariou, Paul Guilfoyle, Elena Wohl, Maureen Keiller, Neal Huff. Overview: The true story of how The Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core. Genres: History, Thriller, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 Birdman 2014 Director: Alejandro González Iñárritu. Cast: Michael Keaton, Zach Galifianakis, Edward Norton, Emma Stone, Naomi Watts, Amy Ryan, Andrea Riseborough, Merritt Wever, Lindsay Duncan. Overview: A fading actor (Michael Keaton) best known for his portrayal of a popular superhero attempts to mount a comeback by appearing in a Broadway play. As opening night approaches, his attempts to become more altruistic, rebuild his career, and reconnect with friends and family prove more difficult than expected. Lindsay Duncan, Zach Galifianakis, and Edward Norton co-star in this black comedy from Biutiful director Alejandro González Iñárritu. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 12 Years a Slave 2013 Director: Steve McQueen. Cast: Michael Fassbender, Brad Pitt, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael K. Williams, Paul Dano, Benedict Cumberbatch, Garret Dillahunt, Ruth Negga, Sarah Paulson, Scoot McNairy, Paul Giamatti, Taran Killam, Alfre Woodard. Overview: A man living in New York during the mid-1800s is kidnapped and sold into slavery in the deep south. Genres: Drama, History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 13m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Argo 2012 Director: Ben Affleck. Cast: Bryan Cranston, Ben Affleck, John Goodman, Taylor Schilling, Kyle Chandler, Clea DuVall, Alan Arkin, Victor Garber, Tate Donovan, Richard Kind, Mark Rhino Smith. Overview: As the Iranian revolution reaches a boiling point, a CIA 'exfiltration' specialist concocts a risky plan to free a six Americans who have found shelter at the home of the Canadian ambassador. Genres: Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 The Artist 2011 Director: Michel Hazanavicius. Cast: Jean Dujardin, Bérénice Bejo, John Goodman, James Cromwell, Penelope Ann Miller, Missi Pyle. Overview: Hollywood, 1927: As silent movie star George Valentin wonders if the arrival of talking pictures will cause him to fade into oblivion, he sparks with Peppy Miller, a young dancer set for a big break. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: France. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 The King's Speech 2010 God save the king. Director: Tom Hooper. Cast: Colin Firth, Geoffrey Rush, Helena Bonham Carter, Guy Pearce, Claire Bloom, Michael Gambon, Timothy Spall, Derek Jacobi, Jennifer Ehle, Ramona Marquez, Freya Wilson. Overview: Tells the story of the man who became King George VI, the father of Queen Elizabeth II. After his brother abdicates, George ('Bertie') reluctantly assumes the throne. Plagued by a dreaded stutter and considered unfit to be king, Bertie engages the help of an unorthodox speech therapist named Lionel Logue. Through a set of unexpected techniques, and as a result of an unlikely friendship, Bertie is able to find his voice and boldly lead the country into war. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 The Hurt Locker 2008 You'll know when you're in it. Director: Kathryn Bigelow. Cast: Jeremy Renner, Anthony Mackie, Brian Geraghty, Guy Pearce, Ralph Fiennes, David Morse, Evangeline Lilly, Christopher Sayegh, Christian Camargo. Overview: Forced to play a dangerous game of cat-and-mouse in the chaos of war, an elite Army bomb squad unit must come together in a city where everyone is a potential enemy and every object could be a deadly bomb. Genres: Action, Drama, Suspense, Thriller, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 Slumdog Millionaire 2008 What does it take to find a lost love? A. Money B. Luck C. Smarts D. Destiny Directors: Loveleen Tandan, Danny Boyle. Cast: Anil Kapoor, Mia Drake Inderbitzin, Dev Patel, Saurabh Shukla, Rajendranath Zutshi, Jeneva Talwar, Freida Pinto, Irrfan Khan. Overview: The story of the life of an impoverished Indian teen Jamal Malik, who becomes a contestant on the Hindi version of "Who Wants to be A Millionaire?", wins, and is then suspected of cheating. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie, Romance. Countries: India, United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 No Country for Old Men 2007 There are no clean getaways. Directors: Ethan Coen, Joel Coen. Cast: Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem, Josh Brolin, Woody Harrelson, Kelly Macdonald, Garret Dillahunt, Tess Harper, Barry Corbin, Stephen Root, Rodger Boyce, Beth Grant, Ana Reeder, Kit Gwin, Zach Hopkins. Overview: Llewelyn Moss stumbles upon dead bodies, $2 million and a hoard of heroin in a Texas desert, but methodical killer Anton Chigurh comes looking for it, with local sheriff Ed Tom Bell hot on his trail. The roles of prey and predator blur as violent pursuits of money and justice collide. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 The Departed 2006 Lies. Betrayal. Sacrifice. How far will you take it? Director: Martin Scorsese. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Jack Nicholson, Mark Wahlberg, Matt Damon, Dick Hughes, Ray Winstone, Anthony Anderson, Alec Baldwin, David O'Hara, Vera Farmiga, Kevin Corrigan, James Badge Dale, Robert Wahlberg, Kristen Dalton, Thomas B. Duffy. Overview: To take down South Boston's Irish Mafia, the police send in one of their own to infiltrate the underworld, not realizing the syndicate has done likewise in Martin Scorsese's multiple Oscar-winning crime thriller. While an undercover cop curries favor with the mob kingpin, a career criminal rises through the police ranks. But both sides soon discover there's a mole among them. Genres: Drama, Action, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 31m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Crash 2004 You think you know who you are. You have no idea. Director: Paul Haggis. Cast: Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Karina Arroyave, Dato Bakhtadze, Michael Peña, Loretta Devine, Jennifer Esposito, Brendan Fraser, Nona Gaye, Ken Garito, Terrence Howard, Ludacris, Thandie Newton, Yomi Perry. Overview: CRASH takes a provocative, unflinching look at the complexities of racial tolerance in contemporary America. Diving headlong into the diverse melting pot of post-9/11 Los Angeles, this compelling urban drama tracks the volatile intersections of a multi-ethnic cast of characters’ struggles to overcome their fears as they careen in and out of one another’s lives. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 Million Dollar Baby 2004 Beyond his silence, there is a past. Beyond her dreams, there is a feeling. Beyond hope, there is a memory. Beyond their journey, there is a love. Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank, Morgan Freeman, Jay Baruchel, Mike Colter, Brían F. O'Byrne, Lucia Rijker, Anthony Mackie, Margo Martindale, Riki Lindhome, Michael Peña. Overview: Despondent over a painful estrangement from his daughter, trainer Frankie Dunn isn't prepared for boxer Maggie Fitzgerald to enter his life. But Maggie's determined to go pro -- and to convince Dunn and his cohort to help her. Genres: Drama, Sports Film. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 17m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King 2003 The eye of the enemy is moving. Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Viggo Mortensen, Liv Tyler, Orlando Bloom, John Rhys-Davies, Sean Astin, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Hugo Weaving, Bernard Hill, Andy Serkis, Miranda Otto, David Wenham, Karl Urban. Overview: Aragorn is revealed as the heir to the ancient kings as he, Gandalf and the other members of the broken fellowship struggle to save Gondor from Sauron's forces. Meanwhile, Frodo and Sam bring the ring closer to the heart of Mordor, the dark lord's realm. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 21m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Chicago 2002 If You Can't Be Famous, Be Infamous. Director: Rob Marshall. Cast: Catherine Zeta-Jones, Renée Zellweger, Queen Latifah, Richard Gere, Christine Baranski, Taye Diggs, Cliff Saunders, Dominic West, John C. Reilly, Colm Feore, Chita Rivera, Susan Misner, Denise Faye, Deidre Goodwin, Mýa. Overview: Murderesses Velma Kelly (a chanteuse and tease who killed her husband and sister after finding them in bed together) and Roxie Hart (who killed her boyfriend when she discovered he wasn't going to make her a star) find themselves on death row together and fight for the fame that will keep them from the gallows in 1920s Chicago. Genres: Action, Comedy, Crime, Drama, Music. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 A Beautiful Mind 2001 I need to believe that something extra ordinary is possible.... Director: Ron Howard. Cast: Russell Crowe, Ed Harris, Jennifer Connelly, Christopher Plummer, Paul Bettany, Adam Goldberg, Josh Lucas, Anthony Rapp, Jason Gray-Stanford, Judd Hirsch, Austin Pendleton, Vivien Cardone, Jillie Simon, Victor Steinbach, Tanya Clarke. Overview: At Princeton University, John Nash struggles to make a worthwhile contribution to serve as his legacy to the world of mathematics. He finally makes a revolutionary breakthrough that will eventually earn him the Nobel Prize. After graduate school he turns to teaching, becoming romantically involved with his student Alicia. Meanwhile the government asks his help with breaking Soviet codes, which soon gets him involved in a terrifying conspiracy plot. Nash grows more and more paranoid until a discovery that turns his entire world upside down. Now it is only with Alicia's help that he will be able to recover his mental strength and regain his status as the great mathematician we know him as today. Genres: Drama, Romance, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 15m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Gladiator 2000 Father of a murdered son, husband to a murdered wife and I shall have my vengeance in this life or the next Director: Ridley Scott. Cast: Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, Oliver Reed, Richard Harris, Derek Jacobi, Djimon Hounsou, David Schofield, John Shrapnel, Tomas Arana, Ralf Moeller, Tommy Flanagan, Spencer Treat Clark, David Hemmings, Sven-Ole Thorsen. Overview: Gladiator is an epic film of love, death and betrayal set in the Roman Empire. General Maximus' success in battle earns the favour of an elderly Emperor at the expense of the Emperor's son. In a fit of jealous rage the son slays his father before turning his anger towards Maximus. Now reduced to a slave, his family dead, Maximus must fight as a Gladiator to gain his freedom, and his revenge. Genres: Action, Drama, History, Adventure. Countries: United Kingdom, Morocco, Malta, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 35m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 American Beauty 1999 Look closer. Director: Sam Mendes. Cast: Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening, Thora Birch, Wes Bentley, Mena Suvari, Chris Cooper, Scott Bakula, Peter Gallagher, Allison Janney, Sam Robards, Barry Del Sherman. Overview: Lester Burnham, a depressed suburban father in a mid-life crisis, decides to turn his hectic life around after developing an infatuation with his daughter's attractive friend. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 Shakespeare in Love 1998 Love is the only inspiration. Director: John Madden. Cast: Joseph Fiennes, Gwyneth Paltrow, Geoffrey Rush, Tom Wilkinson, Judi Dench, Imelda Staunton, Colin Firth, Ben Affleck, Simon Callow, Steven Beard, Jim Carter, Rupert Everett, Martin Clunes, Tim McMullan, Joe Roberts. Overview: Young Shakespeare is forced to stage his latest comedy, "Romeo and Ethel, the Pirate's Daughter," before it's even written. When a lovely noblewoman auditions for a role, they fall into forbidden love -- and his play finds a new life (and title). As their relationship progresses, Shakespeare's comedy soon transforms into tragedy. Genre: History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Titanic 1997 Nothing on Earth could come between them. Director: James Cameron. Cast: Kate Winslet, Leonardo DiCaprio, Frances Fisher, Billy Zane, Kathy Bates, Gloria Stuart, Bill Paxton, Bernard Hill, David Warner, Victor Garber, Jonathan Hyde, Suzy Amis, Lewis Abernathy, Nicholas Cascone, Danny Nucci. Overview: 84 years later, a 101-year-old woman named Rose DeWitt Bukater tells the story to her granddaughter Lizzy Calvert, Brock Lovett, Lewis Bodine, Bobby Buell and Anatoly Mikailavich on the Keldysh about her life set in April 10th 1912, on a ship called Titanic when young Rose boards the departing ship with the upper-class passengers and her mother, Ruth DeWitt Bukater, and her fiancé, Caledon Hockley. Meanwhile, a drifter and artist named Jack Dawson and his best friend Fabrizio De Rossi win third-class tickets to the ship in a game. And she explains the whole story from departure until the death of Titanic on its first and last voyage April 15th, 1912 at 2:20 in the morning. Genres: Action, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 3h 14m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 The English Patient 1996 In love, there are no boundaries. Director: Anthony Minghella. Cast: Ralph Fiennes, Juliette Binoche, Willem Dafoe, Kristin Scott Thomas, Naveen Andrews, Colin Firth, Julian Wadham, Torri Higginson, Jürgen Prochnow, Kevin Whately, Clive Merrison, Nino Castelnuovo, Hichem Rostom, Peter Rühring, Geordie Johnson. Overview: The filmed version of the novel by Michael Ondaatje of the same name. This film tells of love stories during the turbulent times of World War 2. Director Anthony Minghella films the biography of Ladislaus Almasy. Genres: Drama, Romance, War. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 42m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 Braveheart 1995 Every man dies. Not every man truly lives. Director: Mel Gibson. Cast: Mel Gibson, Catherine McCormack, Sophie Marceau, Patrick McGoohan, Angus Macfadyen, Brendan Gleeson, James Robinson, James Cosmo, Sean McGinley, Gerda Stevenson, Mhairi Calvey, Jeanne Marine, Sean Lawlor, Sandy Nelson, Alan Tall. Overview: Enraged at the slaughter of Murron -- his new bride and childhood love -- legendary Scottish warrior William Wallace slays a platoon of the local English lord's soldiers. This leads the village to revolt and, eventually, the entire country to rise up against English rule. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, History, War. Countries: United Kingdom, Ireland, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 57m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Forrest Gump 1994 Life is like a box of chocolates...you never know what you're gonna get. Director: Robert Zemeckis. Cast: Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, Sally Field, Michael Conner Humphreys, Peter Dobson, Hanna R. Hall, Sonny Shroyer, Jed Gillin, Afemo Omilami, Steven Griffith, John William Galt, Nora Dunfee, Michael Mattison. Overview: A man with a low IQ has accomplished great things in his life and been present during significant historic events - in each case, far exceeding what anyone imagined he could do. Yet, despite all the things he has attained, his one true love eludes him. "Forrest Gump" is the story of a man who rose above his challenges, and who proved that determination, courage, and love are more important than ability. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 22m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Schindler's List 1993 Whoever saves one life, saves the world entire. Director: Steven Spielberg. Cast: Liam Neeson, Ben Kingsley, Ralph Fiennes, Caroline Goodall, Jonathan Sagall, Embeth Davidtz, Malgoscha Gebel, Shmuel Levy, Mark Ivanir, Béatrice Macola, Andrzej Seweryn, Friedrich von Thun, Krzysztof Luft, Harry Nehring, Norbert Weisser. Overview: Told from the perspective of businessman Oskar Schindler who saved over a thousand Jewish lives from the Nazis while they worked as slaves in his factory. Schindler’s List is based on a true story, illustrated in black and white and controversially filmed in many original locations. Genres: Drama, History, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 3h 15m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Unforgiven 1992 It's a hell of a thing, killing a man. Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Clint Eastwood, Gene Hackman, Richard Harris, Jaimz Woolvett, Anna Levine, Saul Rubinek, Frances Fisher, David Mucci, Rob Campbell, Anthony James, Morgan Freeman. Overview: Unforgiven is Clint Eastwood’s grandiose salute to classic western films. The film stars Clint Eastwood, as William Munny, a retired gunslinger who returns for one last job. Unforgiven won four Academy Awards including Best Picture. Genres: Action, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 11m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 The Silence of the Lambs 1991 To enter the mind of a killer she must challenge the mind of a madman. Director: Jonathan Demme. Cast: Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Anthony Heald, Scott Glenn, Ted Levine, Frankie Faison, Kasi Lemmons, Brooke Smith, Don Brockett, Chuck Aber, Tracey Walter, Obba Babatundé, Diane Baker, Roger Corman, Charles Napier. Overview: FBI trainee Clarice Starling ventures into a maximum-security asylum to pick the diseased brain of Hannibal Lecter, a psychiatrist turned homicidal cannibal. Starling needs clues to help her capture a serial killer. Unfortunately, her Faustian relationship with Lecter soon leads to his escape, and now two deranged killers are on the loose. Genres: Crime, Drama, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 Dances with Wolves 1990 Inside everyone is a frontier waiting to be discovered. Director: Kevin Costner. Cast: Kevin Costner, Mary McDonnell, Graham Greene, Rodney A. Grant, Floyd Red Crow Westerman, Tantoo Cardinal, Robert Pastorelli, Charles Rocket, Maury Chaykin, Jimmy Herman, Nathan Lee Chasing His Horse, Michael Spears, Jason R. Lone Hill, Tony Pierce, Doris Leader Charge. Overview: Wounded Civil War soldier John Dunbar tries to commit suicide -- and becomes a hero instead. As a reward, he's assigned to his dream post, a remote junction on the Western frontier, and soon makes unlikely friends with the local Sioux tribe. Genres: Adventure, Drama, Western. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 1m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 Driving Miss Daisy 1989 The funny, touching and totally irresistible story of a working relationship that became a 25-year friendship. Director: Bruce Beresford. Cast: Morgan Freeman, Jessica Tandy, Dan Aykroyd, Patti LuPone, Esther Rolle, Joann Havrilla, William Hall Jr., Clarice F. Geigerman, Muriel Moore, Sylvia Kaler, Alvin M. Sugarman, Carolyn Gold. Overview: The story of an old Jewish widow named Daisy Werthan and her relationship with her colored chauffeur Hoke. From an initial mere work relationship grew in 25 years a strong friendship between the two very different characters in a time when those types of relationships where shunned upon. Oscar winning tragic comedy with a star-studded cast and based on a play of the same name by Alfred Uhry. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 39m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 Rain Man 1988 Director: Barry Levinson. Cast: Dustin Hoffman, Tom Cruise, Valeria Golino, Gerald R. Molen, Jack Murdock, Michael D. Roberts, Ralph Seymour, Lucinda Jenney, Bonnie Hunt, Kim Robillard, Beth Grant, Dolan Dougherty, Marshall Dougherty, Patrick Dougherty, Peter Dougherty. Overview: The sensible drama about the reunification of two very different brothers and their struggle to stay together. Dustin Hoffman won an Oscar for best actor for his memorable performance as the autistic Raymond. Genres: Drama, Road Movie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 13m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 The Last Emperor 1987 He was the Lord of Ten Thousand Years, the absolute monarch of China. He was born to rule a world of ancient tradition. Nothing prepared him for our world of change. Director: Bernardo Bertolucci. Cast: John Lone, Peter O'Toole, Joan Chen, Dennis Dun, Ryuichi Sakamoto, Ruocheng Ying, Victor Wong, Maggie Han, Ric Young, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, Fumihiko Ikeda. Overview: A dramatic history of Pu Yi, the last of the Emperors of China, from his lofty birth and brief reign in the Forbidden City, the object of worship by half a billion people; through his abdication, his decline and dissolute lifestyle; his exploitation by the invading Japanese, and finally to his obscure existence as just another peasant worker in the People's Republic. Genres: Drama, History. Country: China. Runtime: 2h 43m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Platoon 1986 The first casualty of war is innocence. Director: Oliver Stone. Cast: Charlie Sheen, Willem Dafoe, Forest Whitaker, Kevin Dillon, John C. McGinley, Francesco Quinn, Richard Edson, Reggie Johnson, Keith David, David Neidorf, Mark Moses, Chris Pedersen, Ivan Kane, Paul Sanchez, J. Adam Glover. Overview: A young recruit in Vietnam faces a moral crisis when confronted with the horrors of war and the duality of man. Genres: Action, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 Out of Africa 1985 Director: Sydney Pollack. Cast: Meryl Streep, Robert Redford, Klaus Maria Brandauer, Michael Kitchen, Malick Bowens, Joseph Thiaka, Stephen Kinyanjui, Michael Gough, Suzanna Hamilton, Rachel Kempson, Graham Crowden, Leslie Phillips, Mike Bugara, Shane Rimmer, Job Seda. Overview: Out of Africa tells the story of the life of Danish author Karen Blixen, who at the beginning of the 20th century moved to Africa to build a new life for herself. The film is based on the autobiographical novel by Karen Blixen from 1937. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 41m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 Amadeus 1984 Amadeus. The man. The music. The magic. The madness. The murder. The mystery. The motion picture. Director: Milos Forman. Cast: F. Murray Abraham, Tom Hulce, Elizabeth Berridge, Roy Dotrice, Simon Callow, Christine Ebersole, Jeffrey Jones, Barbara Bryne. Overview: Amadeus is the story of the last ten years of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s life told by Director Milos Forman. The main story is about the conflict between a genius’ need for fun and a society that disgraces that type of thing. A spectacular picture about one of the most gifted composers of all times with memorable acting by Tom Hulce who played Mozart. Genres: Drama, History, Music. Countries: Austria, Czech Republic. Runtime: 2h 40m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 Terms of Endearment 1983 Director: James L. Brooks. Cast: Shirley MacLaine, Debra Winger, Jack Nicholson, Danny DeVito, Jeff Daniels, John Lithgow, Lisa Hart Carroll, Betty King, Huckleberry Fox, Troy Bishop, Shane Serwin, Megan Morris. Overview: Aurora and Emma are mother and daughter who march to different drummers. Beginning with Emma's marriage, Aurora shows how difficult and loving she can be. The movie covers several years of their lives as each finds different reasons to go on living and find joy. Aurora's interludes with Garrett Breedlove, retired astronaut and next door neighbor are quite striking. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Gandhi 1982 Director: Richard Attenborough. Cast: Ben Kingsley, Rohini Hattangadi, Candice Bergen, Roshan Seth, Om Puri, Saeed Jaffrey, Alyque Padamsee, Martin Sheen, Amrish Puri, Ian Charleson, Edward Fox, Geraldine James, Daniel Day-Lewis, John Gielgud, Trevor Howard. Overview: Director Richard Attenborough tells with this epic, and elaborate produced film, the story of freedom and peace fighter Gandhi, the Indian who helped give Indians their independence. The film was nominated in eleven categories at the Academy Awards, winning eight in total. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Countries: United Kingdom, India. Runtime: 3h 8m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 Chariots of Fire 1981 Director: Hugh Hudson. Cast: Ben Cross, Ian Charleson, Cheryl Campbell, Alice Krige, Nigel Havers, Ian Holm, Nicholas Farrell, Nigel Havers, Daniel Gerroll, John Gielgud, Lindsay Anderson, Nigel Davenport, Dennis Christopher, Brad Davis, Patrick Magee. Overview: Based on the true story of British athletes preparing for and competing in the 1924 Summer Olympics. The film was nominated for seven Academy Awards and won four, including Best Picture. Genres: Drama, History. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 3m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 Ordinary People 1980 Everything is in its proper place...except the past. Director: Robert Redford. Cast: Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore, Judd Hirsch, Timothy Hutton, M. Emmet Walsh, Elizabeth McGovern, Dinah Manoff, Fredric Lehne, James Sikking, Basil Hoffman, Scott Doebler, Quinn K. Redeker, Mariclare Costello, Meg Mundy, Elizabeth Hubbard. Overview: Beth, Calvin, and their son Conrad are living in the aftermath of the death of the other son. Conrad is overcome by grief and misplaced guilt to the extent of a suicide attempt. He is in therapy. Beth had always preferred his brother and is having difficulty being supportive to Conrad. Calvin is trapped between the two trying to hold the family together. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 Kramer vs. Kramer 1979 Director: Robert Benton. Cast: Dustin Hoffman, Meryl Streep, Jane Alexander, Justin Henry, Howard Duff, George Coe, JoBeth Williams, Bill Moor, Howland Chamberlain, Jack Ramage, Jess Osuna, Nicholas Hormann, Ellen Parker, Shelby Brammer, Carol Nadell. Overview: Ted Kramer is a career man for whom his work comes before his family. His wife Joanna cannot take this anymore, so she decides to leave him. Ted is now faced with the tasks of housekeeping and taking care of himself and their young son Billy. When he has learned to adjust his life to these new responsibilities, Joanna resurfaces and wants Billy back. Ted however refuses to give him up, so they go to court to fight for the custody of their son. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 The Deer Hunter 1978 Winner of 5 Academy Awards including Best Picture 1978 Director: Michael Cimino. Cast: Robert De Niro, John Cazale, John Savage, Christopher Walken, Meryl Streep, George Dzundza, Chuck Aspegren, Shirley Stoler, Rutanya Alda, Pierre Segui, Mady Kaplan, Amy Wright, Mary Ann Haenel, Richard Kuss, Joe Grifasi. Overview: The Deer Hunter is a 1978 war drama film about a trio of Russian American steel worker friends and their infantry service in the Vietnam War. Genres: Drama, War. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Annie Hall 1977 A nervous romance. Director: Woody Allen. Cast: Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Tony Roberts, Carol Kane, Paul Simon, Shelley Duvall, Janet Margolin, Colleen Dewhurst, Christopher Walken, Donald Symington, Helen Ludlam, Mordecai Lawner, Joan Neuman, Jonathan Munk, Dick Cavett. Overview: The neurotic New Yorker Woody Allen tells one of the greatest romantic comedies to be set in the city of New York. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 33m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Rocky 1976 His whole life was a million-to-one shot. Director: John G. Avildsen. Cast: Sylvester Stallone, Talia Shire, Burt Young, Carl Weathers, Burgess Meredith, Thayer David, Joe Spinell, Jimmy Gambina, Bill Baldwin, Al Silvani, George Memmoli, Jodi Letizia, Diana Lewis, George O'Hanlon, Larry Carroll. Overview: A small time boxer gets a once in a lifetime chance to fight the heavyweight champ in a bout in which he strives to go the distance for his self-respect. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest 1975 If he's crazy, what does that make you? Director: Milos Forman. Cast: Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher, William Redfield, Michael Berryman, Peter Brocco, Dean R. Brooks, Alonzo Brown, Scatman Crothers, Mwako Cumbuka, Danny DeVito, William Duell, Josip Elic, Lan Fendors, Nathan George, Ken Kenny. Overview: While serving time for insanity at a state mental hospital, implacable rabble-rouser Randle Patrick McMurphy inspires his fellow patients to rebel against the authoritarian rule of head nurse Mildred Ratched. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 13m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 The Godfather: Part II 1974 I don't feel I have to wipe everybody out, Tom. Just my enemies. Director: Francis Ford Coppola. Cast: Al Pacino, Robert Duvall, Diane Keaton, Robert De Niro, John Cazale, Talia Shire, Lee Strasberg, Michael V. Gazzo, G.D. Spradlin, Richard Bright, Francesca De Sapio, Oreste Baldini, Gastone Moschin, Giuseppe Sillato, Kelly Williams. Overview: The continuing saga of the Corleone crime family tells the story of a young Vito Corleone growing up in Sicily and in 1910s New York; and follows Michael Corleone in the 1950s as he attempts to expand the family business into Las Vegas, Hollywood and Cuba Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Countries: Dominican Republic, Italy, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 20m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 The Sting 1973 ...all it takes is a little Confidence. Director: George Roy Hill. Cast: Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Robert Shaw, Charles Durning, Ray Walston, Eileen Brennan, Harold Gould, John Heffernan, Dana Elcar, Jack Kehoe, Dimitra Arliss, Robert Earl Jones, James Sloyan, Charles Dierkop, Lee Paul. Overview: Set in the 1930's this intricate caper deals with an ambitious small-time crook and a veteran con man who seek revenge on a vicious crime lord who murdered one of their gang. Genres: Comedy, Crime, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 9m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 The Godfather 1972 An offer you can't refuse. Director: Francis Ford Coppola. Cast: Marlon Brando, Al Pacino, James Caan, Richard S. Castellano, Robert Duvall, Sterling Hayden, John Marley, Richard Conte, Al Lettieri, Diane Keaton, Abe Vigoda, Talia Shire, Gianni Russo, John Cazale, Rudy Bond. Overview: The story spans the years from 1945 to 1955 and chronicles the fictional Italian-American Corleone crime family. When organized crime family patriarch Vito Corleone barely survives an attempt on his life, his youngest son, Michael, steps in to take care of the would-be killers, launching a campaign of bloody revenge. Genres: Drama, Crime. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 55m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 The French Connection 1971 Director: William Friedkin. Cast: Gene Hackman, Roy Scheider, Fernando Rey, Tony Lo Bianco, Marcel Bozzuffi, Frédéric de Pasquale, Bill Hickman, Harold Gary, Arlene Farber. Overview: A pair of NYC cops in the Narcotics Bureau stumble onto a drug smuggling job with a French connection. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 44m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 Patton 1970 Director: Franklin J. Schaffner. Cast: George C. Scott, Karl Malden, Stephen Young, Michael Strong. Overview: "Patton" tells the tale of General George S. Patton, famous tank commander of World War II. The film begins with patton's career in North Africa and progresses through the invasion of Germany and the fall of the Third Reich. Side plots also speak of Patton's numerous faults such his temper and habit towards insubordination. Genres: Action, Drama, History, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 52m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Midnight Cowboy 1969 Whatever you hear about Midnight Cowboy is true. Director: John Schlesinger. Cast: Dustin Hoffman, Jon Voight, Sylvia Miles, John McGiver, Brenda Vaccaro, Barnard Hughes, Ruth White, Jennifer Salt, Gilman Rankin, T. Tom Marlow, George Eppersen, Georgann Johnson, Bob Balaban. Overview: A naive male prostitute and his sickly friend struggle to survive on the streets of New York City. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 Oliver! 1968 Much Much More Than a Musical! Director: Carol Reed. Cast: Ron Moody, Shani Wallis, Oliver Reed, Jack Wild, Harry Secombe, Mark Lester, Hugh Griffith, Joseph O'Conor, Peggy Mount, Leonard Rossiter, Hylda Baker, Kenneth Cranham, Megs Jenkins. Overview: Musical adaptation about an orphan who runs away from an orphanage and hooks up with a group of boys trained to be pickpockets by an elderly mentor. Genres: Drama, Music, Family. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 33m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 In the Heat of the Night 1967 They got a murder on their hands. They don't know what to do with it. Director: Norman Jewison. Cast: Sidney Poitier, Rod Steiger, Warren Oates, Lee Grant, Larry Gates. Overview: An African American detective is asked to investigate a murder in a racist southern town. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 49m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 A Man for All Seasons 1966 Director: Fred Zinnemann. Cast: Paul Scofield, Wendy Hiller, Leo McKern, Robert Shaw, Orson Welles, Susannah York, Nigel Davenport, John Hurt, Corin Redgrave, Colin Blakely, Cyril Luckham, Jack Gwillim, Thomas Heathcote, Vanessa Redgrave. Overview: A Man for All Seasons is the filmed version of the life of Thomas More. An English man comes to Sir Thomas More to ask if he can divorce his wife since King Henry VIII has made it illegal. Sir Tomas More stands up in opposition to the King even though he knows he’s risking his own life. An award winning film from 1966. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #51 The Sound Of Music 1965 The happiest sound in all the world! Director: Robert Wise. Cast: Julie Andrews, Christopher Plummer, Eleanor Parker, Richard Haydn, Peggy Wood. Overview: Rodgers and Hammerstein's The Sound of Music is a 1965 American musical film directed by Robert Wise and starring Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer. The film is based on the Broadway musical The Sound of Music, with songs written by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II. It was photographed in 70mm Todd-AO by Ted D. McCord. It won a total of five Academy Awards including Best Picture in 1965 and is one of the most popular musicals ever produced. The cast album was nominated for a Grammy Award for Album of the Year. Adjusted for inflation, it made $1.046 billion domestically at 2010 prices, putting it third on the list of all-time inflation-adjusted box office hits, behind Gone with the Wind and Star Wars. The movie is based on a postulant nun, Maria, who leaves her Abbey to become a Governess to a retired Austrian Naval Captain and his 7 children. Genres: Drama, Family, Musical, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 54m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #52 My Fair Lady 1964 Director: George Cukor. Cast: Audrey Hepburn, Rex Harrison, Stanley Holloway, Wilfrid Hyde-White. Overview: Linguist Professor Henry Higgins bets his friend, Colonel Hugh Pickering , that he can transform Cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle in time for an important society ball. The spirited Eliza proves more of a handful than the Professor could have predicted. As she slowly becomes more refined, and less reliant upon him, Higgins realizes, to his confusion, that he can't live without her. Genres: Drama, Musical. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 50m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #53 Tom Jones 1963 Tom Jones! . . . loves and loves and loves and loves . . . Director: Tony Richardson. Cast: Albert Finney, Susannah York, Hugh Griffith, Edith Evans, Joan Greenwood, Diane Cilento, George Devine, David Tomlinson, Freda Jackson, Jack MacGowran, Lynn Redgrave, Joyce Redman, David Warner, Micheál MacLiammóir, Rachel Kempson. Overview: Tom loves Sophie and Sophie loves Tom. But Tom and Sophie are of differering classes. Can they find a way through the mayhem to be true to love? Genres: Action, Comedy, History, Romance, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 8m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #54 Lawrence of Arabia 1962 Director: David Lean. Cast: Peter O'Toole, Alec Guinness, Anthony Quinn, Jack Hawkins, Omar Sharif, Claude Rains, Anthony Quayle, José Ferrer, Arthur Kennedy, Donald Wolfit, Zia Mohyeddin, I.S. Johar, Gamil Ratib, Michel Ray, John Dimech. Overview: Lawrence of Arabia is the classic film from David Lean starring Peter O’Toole and based on the autobiography from Thomas Edward Lawrence who during the first World War was on assignment by the British Empire in Arabia. The film would become a cult classic and is known today as a masterpiece. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Foreign, History. Runtime: 3h 36m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #55 West Side Story 1961 Directors: Jerome Robbins, Robert Wise. Cast: Natalie Wood, Richard Beymer, Russ Tamblyn, Rita Moreno, George Chakiris, Simon Oakland, Ned Glass, William Bramley, Tucker Smith. Overview: West Side Story is the film adaptation of the popular Broadway musical of the same name from directors Robert Wise and Jerome Robbins. Genres: Drama, Musical, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 32m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #56 The Apartment 1960 Movie-wise, there has never been anything like it - laugh-wise, love-wise, or otherwise-wise Director: Billy Wilder. Cast: Jack Lemmon, Shirley MacLaine, Fred MacMurray, Ray Walston, Jack Kruschen, Naomi Stevens, Hope Holiday, Edie Adams, Joan Shawlee, Johnny Seven. Overview: The Apartment came out shortly after the success of ‘Some Like it Hot’ from director Billy Wilder and thus making it the most successful films of the year. Full of trivialities this comedy is a harsh critic of coporate world and the American way of life. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 5m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #57 Ben-Hur 1959 The entertainment experience of a lifetime. Director: William Wyler. Cast: Charlton Heston, Jack Hawkins, Haya Harareet, Stephen Boyd, Hugh Griffith, Martha Scott, Cathy O'Donnell, Frank Thring, Sam Jaffe, Ady Berber, Finlay Currie, George Relph, André Morell. Overview: Ben-Hur is a 1959 epic film directed by William Wyler, the third film version of Lew Wallace's 1880 novel Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ. It premiered at Loew's State Theatre in New York City on November 18, 1959. The film went on to win a record of eleven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, a feat equaled only by Titanic in 1998 and The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King in 2004. It was also the last film to win the Oscar for both Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor, until nearly 44 years later when Mystic River achieved the same feat.The movie revolves around a Jewish prince who is betrayed and sent into slavery by a Roman friend and how he regains his freedom and comes back for revenge. Genres: Adventure, Drama, History. Country: Italy. Runtime: 3h 32m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #58 Gigi 1958 Thank heaven for Gigi Director: Vincente Minnelli. Cast: Leslie Caron, Maurice Chevalier, Louis Jourdan, Hermione Gingold, Eva Gabor, Jacques Bergerac, Isabel Jeans, John Abbott, Corinne Marchand, Pat Sheehan, Marie-Hélène Arnaud. Overview: A home, a motorcar, servants, the latest fashions: the most eligible and most finicky bachelor (Louis Jourdan) in Paris offers them all to Gigi (Leslie Caron). But she, who's gone from girlish gawkishness to cultured glamour before our eyes, yearns for that wonderful something money can't buy. Genres: Comedy, Music, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 56m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #59 The Bridge on the River Kwai 1957 It spans a whole new world of entertainment! Director: David Lean. Cast: William Holden, Jack Hawkins, Alec Guinness, Sessue Hayakawa, James Donald, Geoffrey Horne, André Morell, Peter Williams. Overview: A classic story of English POWs in Burma forced to build a bridge to aid the war effort of their Japanese captors. British and American intelligence officers conspire to blow up the structure, but Col. Nicholson , the commander who supervised the bridge's construction, has acquired a sense of pride in his creation and tries to foil their plans. Genres: Action, Drama, Foreign, History, War. Countries: United Kingdom, Sri Lanka. Runtime: 2h 41m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #60 Around the World in Eighty Days 1956 It's a wonderful world, if you'll only take the time to go around it! Director: Michael Anderson. Cast: David Niven, Finlay Currie, Robert Morley, Cantinflas, Charles Boyer, Robert Newton, Gilbert Roland, Marlene Dietrich, Frank Sinatra, Buster Keaton, John Carradine, Peter Lorre, George Raft, Tim McCoy, Joe E. Brown. Overview: Based on the famous book by Jules Verne the movie follows Phileas Fogg on his journey around the world. Which has to be completed within 80 days, a very short period for those days. Genres: Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy, Romance, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 47m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #61 Marty 1955 EVERYBODY'S RAVING ABOUT "MARTY" . . . The year's BIG entertainment surprise a warm and human story with characters you'll love and remember! Director: Delbert Mann. Cast: Ernest Borgnine, Betsy Blair, Esther Minciotti, Augusta Ciolli, Joe Mantell, Karen Steele, Jerry Paris. Overview: Marty, a butcher who lives in the Bronx with his mother is unmarried at 34. Good-natured but socially awkward he faces constant badgering from family and friends to get married but has reluctantly resigned himself to bachelorhood. Marty meets Clara, an unattractive school teacher, realising their emotional connection, he promises to call but family and friends try to convince him not to. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 30m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #62 On the Waterfront 1954 Director: Elia Kazan. Cast: Marlon Brando, Lee J. Cobb, Karl Malden, Eva Marie Saint, Rod Steiger, Pat Henning, Leif Erickson, James Westerfield. Overview: On the Waterfront is a social criticism gangster film from director Elia Kazan, about an ex-boxer, who is part of the corruption of the trade unions for the men working on the waterfront in New York. A film about mob violence that won eight Academy Awards. Genres: Crime, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #63 From Here to Eternity 1953 Pouring out of impassioned pages...brawling their way to greatness on the screen! Director: Fred Zinnemann. Cast: Burt Lancaster, Montgomery Clift, Deborah Kerr, Donna Reed, Frank Sinatra, Ernest Borgnine, Philip Ober, Mickey Shaughnessy, Harry Bellaver, Jack Warden, John Dennis, Merle Travis, Tim Ryan. Overview: The setting is an army base in Hawaii in 1941. Montgomery Clift, in a superb performance, plays a bugler who refuses to fight for the company boxing team; he has reasons for giving up the sport. His refusal results in harsh treatment from the company commander, whose bored wife (Deborah Kerr) is having an affair with the tough-but-fair sergeant (Burt Lancaster). You remember--the scene with the two of them embracing on the beach, as the surf crashes in. The supporting players are as good as the leads: Frank Sinatra and Donna Reed won Oscars (and Sinatra revitalized his entire career), and Ernest Borgnine entered the gallery of all-time movie villains, as the stockade sergeant who makes Sinatra miserable. Zinnemann's work is efficient but also evocative, capturing the time and place beautifully, the tropical breezes as well as the lazy prewar indulgence. This one is deservedly a classic. --Robert Horton Genres: Drama, Romance, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #64 The Greatest Show on Earth 1952 Director: Cecil B. DeMille. Cast: Betty Hutton, Cornel Wilde, Charlton Heston, Dorothy Lamour, Gloria Grahame, Henry Wilcoxon, Lyle Bettger, Lawrence Tierney, James Stewart, Emmett Kelly, Julia Faye, Frank Wilcox, Lillian Albertson, Bess Flowers, Dorothy Adams. Overview: To ensure a full profitable season, circus manager Brad Braden engages The Great Sebastian, though this moves his girlfriend Holly from her hard-won center trapeze spot. Holly and Sebastian begin a dangerous one-upmanship duel in the ring, while he pursues her on the ground. Genres: Action, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 32m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #65 An American in Paris 1951 What a joy! It's M-G-M's Technicolor musical! Director: Vincente Minnelli. Cast: Gene Kelly, Leslie Caron, Oscar Levant, Georges Guétary, Nina Foch. Overview: Jerry Mulligan (Gene Kelly) is an exuberant American expatriate in Paris trying to make a reputation as a painter. His friend Adam (Oscar Levant) is a struggling concert pianist who's a long time associate of a famous French singer, Henri Baurel (Georges Guétary). A lonely society woman, Milo Roberts (Nina Foch) takes Jerry under her wing and supports him, but is interested in more than his art. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Music, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #66 All About Eve 1950 It's all about women...and their men! Director: Joseph L. Mankiewicz. Cast: Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, George Sanders, Celeste Holm, Gary Merrill, Hugh Marlowe, Gregory Ratoff, Barbara Bates, Marilyn Monroe, Thelma Ritter. Overview: Director Mankiewisz’s tragic comedy about the American show business is one of the darkest and most cynical films ever made. Bette Davis is brilliant in her roll as a once Broadway Diva who takes care of the promotion for the talented actress Eva (played by Anne Baxter). All together the film won six Oscars in 1951. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 18m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #67 All the King's Men 1949 He Might Have Been A Pretty Good Guy . . . If Too Much Power . . . And Women . . . Hadn't Gone To his Head ! Director: Robert Rossen. Cast: Broderick Crawford, John Ireland, Joanne Dru, John Derek, Mercedes McCambridge, Shepperd Strudwick, Ralph Dumke, Anne Seymour, Katherine Warren, Raymond Greenleaf, Walter Burke, Will Wright, Grandon Rhodes. Overview: All The King's Men is the story of the rise of politician Willie Stark (Broderick Crawford) from a rural county seat to the governor's mansion. Firstly he teaches himself law and becomes a lawyer championing the local people, and gaining much local popularity. He then decides to go into politics. Along the way, he loses his innocence, and becomes just as corrupt as the politicians he once fought against. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 49m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #68 Hamlet 1948 Director: Laurence Olivier. Cast: Laurence Olivier, Jean Simmons, John Laurie, Esmond Knight, Anthony Quayle, Niall MacGinnis, Harcourt Williams, Patrick Troughton, Tony Tarver, Peter Cushing, Stanley Holloway. Overview: Winner of four Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Actor, Sir Laurence Olivier’s Hamlet continues to be the most compelling version of Shakespeare’s beloved tragedy. Olivier is at his most inspired—both as director and as the melancholy Dane himself—as he breathes new life into the words of one of the world’s greatest dramatists. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 35m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #69 Gentleman's Agreement 1947 Director: Elia Kazan. Cast: Gregory Peck, Dorothy McGuire, John Garfield, Celeste Holm, Anne Revere, June Havoc, Albert Dekker, Jane Wyatt, Dean Stockwell, Nicholas Joy, Sam Jaffe, Virginia Gregg, Roy Roberts. Overview: Philip Green is a highly respected writer who is recruited by a national magazine to write a series of articles on anti-Semitism in America. He's not too keen on the series, mostly because he's not sure how to tackle the subject. Then it dawns on him: if he was to pretend to all and sundry that he was Jewish, he could then experience the degree of racism and prejudice that exists and write his story from that perspective. It takes little time for him to experience bigotry. He soon learns the liberal-minded firm he works for doesn't hire Jews and that his own secretary changed her name and kept the fact that she is Jewish a secret from everyone. Green soon finds that he won't be invited to certain parties, that he cannot stay in so-called 'restricted' hotels and that his own son is called names in the street. His anger at the way he is treated also affects his relationship with Kathy Lacy, his publisher's niece and the person who suggested the series in the first place. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #70 The Best Years of Our Lives 1946 Director: William Wyler. Cast: Fredric March, Myrna Loy, Dana Andrews, Teresa Wright, Virginia Mayo, Cathy O'Donnell, Hoagy Carmichael, Harold Russell, Gladys George, Roman Bohnen, Ray Collins, Minna Gombell, Walter Baldwin, Steve Cochran, Dorothy Adams. Overview: The Best Years of Our Lives is a classic film from director Williams Wyler about three war veterans. The film earned seven Oscars in 1946. Genres: Drama, History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 52m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #71 The Lost Weekend 1945 Director: Billy Wilder. Cast: Ray Milland, Jane Wyman, Phillip Terry, Howard Da Silva, Doris Dowling, Frank Faylen, Mary Young, Anita Sharp-Bolster, Lillian Fontaine, Frank Orth, Lewis L. Russell. Overview: A writer battles his addiction to alcohol during a hot weekend in New York City Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 41m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #72 Going My Way 1944 When the St. Louis Browns lost Bing, the Cardinal got a good singer! Director: Leo McCarey. Cast: Bing Crosby, Barry Fitzgerald, Frank McHugh, James Brown, Gene Lockhart, Jean Heather, Porter Hall, Fortunio Bonanova, Eily Malyon, The Robert Mitchell Boy Choir, Risë Stevens, Adeline De Walt Reynolds, William Frawley, Gibson Gowland, William Smith. Overview: Youthful Father Chuck O'Malley (Bing Crosby) led a colourful life of sports, song, and romance before joining the Roman Catholic clergy. After being appointed to a run-down New York parish , O'Malley's worldly knowledge helps him connect with a gang of boys looking for direction, eventually winning over the aging, conventional Parish priest (Barry Fitzgerald). Genres: Comedy, Drama, Music. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #73 Casablanca 1942 They had a date with fate in Casablanca! Director: Michael Curtiz. Cast: Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman, Paul Henreid, Claude Rains, Conrad Veidt, Sydney Greenstreet, Peter Lorre, Madeleine Lebeau, Dooley Wilson, Joy Page, John Qualen, Leonid Kinskey, Curt Bois, Marcel Dalio, Helmut Dantine. Overview: Casablanca is a classic and one of the most revered films of all time. Starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman in a love triangle in the city of Casablanca which is a refuge for many fleeing foreigners looking for a new life during the war. Political romance with a backdrop of war conflict between democracy and totalitarianism. A landmark in film history. Genres: Crime, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #74 Mrs. Miniver 1942 Director: William Wyler. Cast: Greer Garson, Walter Pidgeon, Teresa Wright, Dame May Whitty, Reginald Owen, Henry Travers, Richard Ney, Henry Wilcoxon, Christopher Severn, Brenda Forbes, Clare Sandars, Marie De Becker, Helmut Dantine, John Abbott, Connie Leon. Overview: The Minivers, an English "middle-class" family experience life in the first months of World War II. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 14m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #75 How Green Was My Valley 1941 Director: John Ford. Cast: Walter Pidgeon, Maureen O'Hara, Anna Lee, Donald Crisp, Roddy McDowall, John Loder, Sara Allgood, Barry Fitzgerald, Patric Knowles. Overview: At the turn of the century in a Welsh mining village, the Morgans (he stern, she gentle) raise coal-mining sons and hope their youngest will find a better life. Lots of atmosphere, very sentimental view of pre-union miners' lives. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #76 Rebecca 1940 The shadow of this woman darkened their love Director: Alfred Hitchcock. Cast: Laurence Olivier, Joan Fontaine, George Sanders, Judith Anderson, Nigel Bruce, Reginald Denny, Gladys Cooper, Florence Bates, Leo G. Carroll, Leonard Carey, Lumsden Hare, Edward Fielding, Forrester Harvey, Philip Winter, Alfred Hitchcock. Overview: Rebecca is a 1940 psychological/dramatic thriller directed by Alfred Hitchcock as his first American project. It stars Laurence Olivier as Maxim de Winter, Joan Fontaine as his second wife, and Judith Anderson as his late wife's housekeeper, Mrs. Danvers. The film is a gothic tale about the lingering memory of the title character, which still affects Maxim, his new bride, and Mrs. Danvers long after her death. The film won two Academy Awards, including Best Picture out of a total 11 nominations. Olivier, Fontaine and Anderson were all Oscar nominated for their respective roles. Since the introduction of awards for actors in supporting roles, this is the only film named Best Picture that won no other Academy Award for acting, directing or writing. It was the opening film at the 1st Berlin International Film Festival. With excellently played rolls and a story that never seems wrong this film is a true classic. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Romance, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #77 Gone with the Wind 1939 Director: Victor Fleming. Cast: Vivien Leigh, Clark Gable, Olivia de Havilland, Thomas Mitchell, Leslie Howard, Barbara O'Neil, Evelyn Keyes, Ann Rutherford, George Reeves, Fred Crane, Hattie McDaniel, Oscar Polk, Butterfly McQueen, Marcella Martin, Harry Davenport. Overview: An American classic in which a manipulative woman and a roguish man carry on a turbulent love affair in the American south during the Civil War and Reconstruction. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 3h 39m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #78 You Can't Take It with You 1938 The Great Pulitzer Prize Play...Becomes the Year's Outstanding Picture! Director: Frank Capra. Cast: James Stewart, Jean Arthur, Lionel Barrymore, Edward Arnold, Mary Forbes, Mischa Auer, Ann Miller, Spring Byington, Samuel S. Hinds, Donald Meek, H.B. Warner, Halliwell Hobbes, Dub Taylor, Lillian Yarbo, Eddie 'Rochester' Anderson. Overview: Alice, the only relatively normal member of the eccentric Sycamore family, falls in love with Tony Kirby. His wealthy banker father, Anthony P. Kirby, and his snobbish mother, strongly disapprove of the match. When the Kirbys are invited to dinner to become better acquainted with their future in-laws, things do not turn out the way Alice had hoped. Genres: Comedy, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 6m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #79 The Life of Emile Zola 1937 Director: William Dieterle. Cast: Paul Muni, Gale Sondergaard, Joseph Schildkraut, Gloria Holden, Donald Crisp. Overview: Bio epic of the famous writer. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 56m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #80 The Great Ziegfeld 1936 The Last Word In Entertainment! Director: Robert Z. Leonard. Cast: William Powell, Myrna Loy, Luise Rainer, Frank Morgan, Fanny Brice, Virginia Bruce, Reginald Owen, Ray Bolger, Ernest Cossart, Joseph Cawthorn, Nat Pendleton. Overview: Lavish biography of Flo Ziegfeld, the producer who became Broadway's biggest starmaker. Genres: Drama, Music. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 56m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #81 Mutiny on the Bounty 1935 Director: Frank Lloyd. Cast: Charles Laughton, Clark Gable, Franchot Tone, Herbert Mundin. Overview: Fletcher Christian successfully leads a revolt against the ruthless Captain Bligh on the HMS Bounty. However, Bligh returns one year later, hell bent on avenging his captors. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #82 It Happened One Night 1934 Director: Frank Capra. Cast: Clark Gable, Claudette Colbert, Walter Connolly, Roscoe Karns, Jameson Thomas, Alan Hale, Arthur Hoyt, Blanche Friderici, Charles C. Wilson. Overview: Comic romance between a down-to-earth newspaper reporter and a spoiled runaway heiress. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Road Movie, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 45m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #83 Cavalcade 1933 Director: Frank Lloyd. Cast: Diana Wynyard, Clive Brook, Una O'Connor, Herbert Mundin, Beryl Mercer, Irene Browne, Tempe Pigott, Merle Tottenham, Frank Lawton, Ursula Jeans, Margaret Lindsay, John Warburton, Billy Bevan, Dickie Henderson, Douglas Scott. Overview: A cavalcade of English life from New Year's Eve 1899 until 1933 seen through the eyes of well-to-do Londoners Jane and Robert Marryot. Amongst events touching their family are the Boer War, the death of Queen Victoria, the sinking of the Titanic and the Great War. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 50m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #84 Grand Hotel 1932 Thank The Stars For A Great Entertainment ! Director: Edmund Goulding. Cast: Greta Garbo, John Barrymore, Joan Crawford, Wallace Beery, Lionel Barrymore, Lewis Stone, Jean Hersholt, Robert McWade, Purnell Pratt, Ferdinand Gottschalk, Rafaela Ottiano, Morgan Wallace, Tully Marshall, Frank Conroy, Murray Kinnell. Overview: Guests at a posh Berlin hotel struggle through scandal and heartache. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #85 Cimarron 1931 Terrific as all creation! Director: Wesley Ruggles. Cast: Richard Dix, Irene Dunne, Estelle Taylor, Nance O'Neil, William Collier. Overview: A newspaper editor settles in an Oklahoma boom town with his reluctant wife at the end of the nineteenth century. Genres: Action, Drama, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 3m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #86 All Quiet on the Western Front 1930 Director: Lewis Milestone. Cast: Lew Ayres, Arnold Lucy, John Wray, Louis Wolheim, Ben Alexander, Scott Kolk, Owen Davis Jr., Walter Rogers, William Bakewell, Slim Summerville, Zasu Pitts, Beryl Mercer. Overview: A young soldier faces profound disillusionment in the soul-destroying horror of World War I. Together with several other young German soldiers, he experiences the horrors of war, such evil of which he had not conceived of when signing up to fight. They eventually become sad, tormented, and confused of their purpose. Genres: Action, Drama, History, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 20m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #87 The Broadway Melody 1929 Director: Harry Beaumont. Cast: Charles King, Anita Page, Bessie Love. Overview: Harriet and Queenie Mahoney, a vaudeville act, come to Broadway, where their friend Eddie Kerns needs them for his number in one of Francis Zanfield's shows. Eddie was in love with Harriet, but when he meets Queenie, he falls in love to her, but she is courted by Jock Warriner, a member of the New Yorker high society. It takes a while till Queenie recognizes, that she is for Jock nothing more than a toy, and it also takes a while till Harriet recognizes, that Eddie is in love with Queenie Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #88 Wings 1927 Director: William A. Wellman. Cast: Clara Bow, Charles 'Buddy' Rogers, Richard Arlen, Jobyna Ralston, Gary Cooper, El Brendel, Richard Tucker. Overview: Two young men fall in love for the same same girl. After US enters WWi, both join the Air Corps and become ace. They remain friends, but the realtion to the girl threatens their friendship Genres: Action, Drama, Romance, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
