#ThisURL#
http://www.silverpop.com/About/Trust--Privacy/Security/
#SubURL#
http://www.silverpop.com/Software/marketing-platform/
http://www.silverpop.com/Partners/Partners-All/?category=250
http://www.silverpop.com/marketing-resources/expert-library/
http://www.silverpop.com/About/News/
https://www.facebook.com/Silverpop
http://www.silverpop.com/Services/Support-and-Training/Customer-Support/
http://www.silverpop.com/Solutions/marketing-automation/
http://www.silverpop.com/About/Trust--Privacy/Security/
http://www.silverpop.com/Solutions/marketing-automation/Lead-Contact-Scoring/
http://www.silverpop.com/Industries/travel-hospitality/
http://www.silverpop.com/About/News/Press-Release-Listing/
http://www.linkedin.com/company/silverpop
https://plus.google.com/+silverpop/posts
http://whatbrowser.org/
https://portal.silverpop.com/Portal/www/login.php
https://twitter.com/silverpop
http://www.ibm.com/privacy/us/en/
https://www.youtube.com/user/silverpop
#Title#
Security | IBM Marketing Cloud
#Content#
﻿ 
	Security | IBM Marketing Cloud
 It appears you are using an older version of your browser. This site was developed to be progressive and future-compatible. Please take a minute to upgrade your browser for an optimal experience. Upgrade Hide Skip to content Software Services Industries Clients Partners Resources About Enable Personalized Customer Experiences Marketing Platform Transform the customer experience with a behavior-based platform that captures data from any source to inform and drive interactions in real time. Marketing Platform Marketing Automation Automate personalized interactions at scale and deliver meaningful and highly relevant messaging along every step in the customer lifecycle. Marketing Automation Email Marketing Send incredibly personal, relevant and timely messaging that incorporate customers’ preferences and recent behaviors. Email Marketing Mobile Customer Engagement Our Mobile Customer Engagement suite helps make integrating mobile with your other digital channels easy and effective. Mobile Customer Engagement View Additional Products and Apps Let the IBM Marketing Cloud work for you! Consulting Services Leverage the strengths of our digital marketing, product and technology experts. Implementation Services Marketing Strategy Product Consulting Technical Consulting Managed Services As needed or on a full-time basis, we're here to step in when you need another pair of hands. Full Service On-Demand Managed Services Custom Engineering Achieve quicker results with application development, systems integration and custom product extensions. Custom Development App and Web Solutions Data Migration Support & Training Our customers' success is our top priority, from support and training to deliverability, we're here to help. Customer Support Training Deliverability Services We know your industry Industries IBM Marketing Cloud is trusted by more than 5,000 brands globally, learn about our clients and their successes. Retail & E-tail High Tech Financial Services Agencies Travel & Hospitality Media & Publishing Featured Industry: Learn about our clients' success. Clients IBM Marketing Cloud is trusted by more than 5,000 brands globally, learn about our clients and their successes. Case Studies Video Testimonials Client Quotes Already an IBM Marketing Cloud Client? “Marketing Automation has allowed us to be very personal in terms of the message we send to our customers.  Click through rates on some of our automated programs has tripled what we are used to seeing with traditional campaigns and our conversion rates are a lot higher.”  Kristin Lucido Texas Instruments Learn more about our vast partner network. Partners Extend the value of the IBM Marketing Cloud product suite through our extensive network of partners. Technology Partners Consulting Partners Agency Partners Resellers Become a Partner SugarCRM enables businesses to create extraordinary customer relationships with the most innovative, flexible and affordable CRM solution in the market.  More Content, blogs, events & more. Expert Library Free resources for marketers that are looking to take their campaigns to the next level. Whitepapers Webinars Newsletter Subscription ROI Calculator See how you could leverage the IBM Marketing Cloud to help drive efficiencies, revenue and prove ROI. ROI Calculator Events From local and national events to our own Digital Marketing University, we'd love for you to join us! Live Events Webinars Blog  Stay up to date on the latest and greatest in digital marketing. Blog  Learn about the IBM Marketing Cloud. Company Overview Learn about our leadership team, board members, investors and more.  Want more information?  Just fill out our contact form and we'll be sure to follow-up. Contact Us Newsroom Check out our latest news coverage from around the globe as well as recent company announcements. News Coverage Press Release Archives Careers We're always looking for smart people that are passionate about digital marketing.  Check out our open positions, learn about our culture and apply online. Search For Jobs Perks @ the Pop People at the IBM Marketing Cloud Internship Opportunities Trust & Privacy Learn how the IBM Marketing Cloud ensures that our clients are always protected. Reliability Security Industry Associations Technology Partners Privacy Policy & Legal 1-866-745-8767 Demo Support Client Login Client Login Application Select One IBM Marketing Cloud Instance Select One Engage 1 Engage 2 Engage 3 Engage 4 Engage 5 Engage 6 Engage 7 x Contact Home About Trust & Privacy Security Share Security Companies that rely on the Internet and have access to any sort of customer information are routinely targeted by cybercriminals. The integrity and security of our clients' data is incredibly important to us as we know it is important to the success of their business. To stay ahead of new threats, IBM Marketing Cloud is constantly evaluating and improving our applications, systems and processes. Our commitment to security involves a multifaceted approach to mitigate risk and maximize security in support of data privacy and business continuity. Security Team and Operations Center The IBM Marketing Cloud Security Team consists of a group of highly skilled security professionals who are leading the industry with the breadth and depth of their experience. Additionally, IBM Marketing Cloud maintains a Security Operations Center, providing 24x7 security monitoring and support throughout the organization. Application Security IBM Marketing Cloud has powerful client security controls, including those that allow clients to do the following: Specify the IP addresses individual users are allowed to log in from IP address validation User-level IP address restriction Organizational-level IP address restriction Control user actions post-login with multiple permission levels, including: User interface access rights API access rights Individual access rights (add/update/delete contacts, export lists, etc.) Functional access rights (send mailings, view reports, administrative, etc.) File/Folder access rights Database access rights Configure password settings to mirror each client's own corporate security practices Require multi-factor authentication before granting user access to data Application Security is also addressed by keeping client data isolated to its own database and separate from the application, providing an audit trail of user actions performed on the system and encrypting passwords. Additional Security Measures Additionally, IBM Marketing Cloud has implemented security measures outside of the application specifically designed to prevent unauthorized access to the application and to client data. Additional security controls are implemented under the following categories: Secure Architecture: The IBM Marketing Cloud enterprise network uses primarily Cisco and F5 networking equipment. Networking equipment is configured consistent with the manufacturers' best practices for operational stability and security. All networking equipment is owned and operated by IBM Marketing Cloud. Secure Transmissions and Sessions: Connection to the IBM Marketing Cloud environment is via SSL 3.0/TLS 1.0 ensuring that our users have a secure connection from their browsers to our service. Individual user sessions are identified and re-verified with each transaction, using a unique token created at login and two-factor authentication required for all communications with IBM Marketing Cloud data centers. We also restrict organizational-level access by IP address and SFTP and 128-bit encryption for FTP file transfers with additional VPN and PGP encryption protection available. Network Protection: Perimeter firewalls and edge routers block unused protocols and internal firewalls segregate traffic between the application and database tiers. Intrusion prevention and detection sensors report events to a security event management system for logging, alerts, and reports and internal access control lists segregate traffic between the application and database tiers. A third-party service provider regularly scans the network externally. Internal and Third-Party Testing Assessments: IBM Marketing Cloud tests all code for security vulnerabilities before release, and regularly scans our network and systems for vulnerabilities. Third-party assessments are also conducted regularly. Monitoring: Our Information Security department monitors notification from various sources and alerts from internal systems to identify and manage threats. Data Centers: Our service is collocated in dedicated spaces at top-tier data centers. Disaster Recovery: IBM Marketing Cloud performs cross data center replication for disaster recovery. Data is transmitted across encrypted links and disaster recovery tests verify our projected recovery times and the integrity of client data. Backups: All data is backed up to disk at each data center on a rotating schedule of incremental and full backups. Data is replicated to other data centers via an encrypted tunnel. Regulatory Compliance: IBM Marketing Cloud has Safe Harbor certification, and our data center providers have annual SAS70 Type II audits. More detailed information can be found in our Engage Security Data Sheet. Company Overview Careers News Trust & Privacy Reliability Security Industry Associations Technology Partners Privacy Policy & Legal Contact Us IBM Marketing Cloud is a cloud-based digital marketing provider that offers email marketing, lead-to-revenue management and mobile engagement solutions. IBM Marketing Cloud uses customer data and individual behaviors, collected from a variety of sources, to inform and drive personalized interactions in real time. IBM Marketing Cloud powers the delivery of exceptional experiences for customers across the buyer journey by leveraging key data, providing analytical insights and automating relevant cross-channel interactions. As part of IBM, IBM Marketing Cloud helps make it easier to design meaningful customer experiences across applications, devices and time, accelerating today’s results and tomorrow’s ambitions. IBM Marketing Cloud is trusted by more than 5,000 brands around the globe. Worldwide Australia Germany North America United Kingdom South Africa More Info Contact Press Room Careers Partners Terms of Use Privacy Policy Solutions Email Campaigns Marketing Automation Lead Management Lead Nurturing Lead Scoring Email Deliverability CRM Integration Landing Pages Social Content 1-866-745-8767 or email © IBM Corporation 2016. All Rights Reserved. Close To give you the best experience, this website uses cookies. Continuing to use this website means that you consent to our using cookies. You can change your cookie settings in your browser at any time. Find out more here or by clicking the Cookie Policy link at the bottom of this page. IBM Marketing Cloud Demo: Please complete the form to watch the video. If you've signed up before for any of our offerings, you can log in to automatically download the video. IBM Marketing Cloud Product Demo
