#ThisURL#
http://www.certifymegreen.org/
#SubURL#
http://www.certifymegreen.org/board_of_directors.html
http://www.certifymegreen.org/communications.html#WCM
http://www.certifymegreen.org/faq.html
http://www.certifymegreen.org/additional_certifications.html#GVT
https://twitter.com/ETAIntl
http://www.certifymegreen.org/communications.html#RFIM
http://www.certifymegreen.org/communications.html#B-VoIP
http://www.certifymegreen.org/communications.html#GCT
http://www.certifymegreen.org/why_choose_eta_certifications.html
http://www.certifymegreen.org/communications.html#GCT2
http://www.certifymegreen.org/test_sites.html
http://www.linkedin.com/groupInvitation?groupID=724317&sharedKey=6C720836CEFF
https://netforum.avectra.com/eWeb/DynamicPage.aspx?Site=ETAINTERN&WebCode=LoginRequired
http://www.eta-i.org
mailto:eta@eta-i.org
http://www.eta-i.org/ca_locator/index.php
http://www.eta-i.org/career_resource_center.html
https://netforum.avectra.com/eWeb/Shopping/Shopping.aspx?Cart=0&Site=etaintern
http://trapezaonlinetesting.com/login
http://www.youtube.com/user/ETAINTL
https://plus.google.com/+Eta-iOrg/posts
https://www.facebook.com/ETAInternational
http://eta.eitprep.com/purchase/
http://www.icacnet.org/
#Title#
Accredited Renewable Energy Certifications
#Content#
We get it. You are concerned about security because the Internet is full of bad people using Javascript for evil. This site only uses it for good...well, it uses it for menus and other fancy eye candy. Please enable Javascript to navigate. Thanks. Find A Test Site Career Resource Center Member Login Languages Store FAQ Toggle navigation About Home About Newsroom Board of Directors Staff Certifications Why Choose ETA Certifications Find A Test Site Basic Electronics Apprentice (APP) Associate CET (CETa) Electronics Modules (EM1-5) Student Electronics Technician (SET) Biomedical Biomedical Electronics Technician (BMD) Biomedical Imaging Electronics Technician (BIET) Communications Broadband-Voice over Internet Protocol (B-VoIP) Certified Satellite Installer (CSI) Distributed Antenna Systems (DAS) General Communications Technician - Level 1 (GCT1) General Communications Technician - Level 2 (GCT2) Line and Antenna Sweep (LAS) Mobile Communications and Electronics Installer (MCEI) Passive Intermodulation Testing (PIM) RF Interference Mitigation (RFIM) Radar (RAD) TRN Wireless Communications Technician (TRN) Telecommunications Electronics Technician (TCM) Wireless Communications (WCM) Fiber Optics and Data Cabling ARINC Installer/Technician (AFI/AFT) Data Cabling Installer (DCI) Fiber Optics Designer (FOD) Fiber Optics Installer (FOI) Fiber Optics Technician (FOT) Fiber Optics Technician-Outside Plant (FOT-OSP) SAE Fabricator (SFF) Termination and Testing Technician (TTT) Information Technology Computer Service Technician (CST) Network Computer Technician (NCT) Network Systems Technician (NST) Wireless Network Technician (WNT) Photonics and Precision Optics Photonics Technician Operator (PTO) Photonics Technician Specialist (PTS) Specialist in Precision Optics (SPO) Technician in Precision Optics (TPO) Renewable Energy Electric Vehicle Technician (EVT) Photovoltaic Installer - Level 1 (PVI-LVL1) Small Wind Installer - Level 1 (SWI-LVL1) Smart Home Certified Alarm Security Technician (CAST) Electronic Security Networking Technician (ESNT) Residential Electronics Systems Integrator (RESI) Master Residential Electronics Systems Integrator (RESIma) Additional Certifications Avionics (AVN) Commercial Audio Technician (CAT) Customer Service Specialist (CSS) Gaming and Vending Technician (GVT) Industrial Electronics (IND) Certified Service Manager (CSM) Radio Frequency Identification Technical Specialist (RFID) ------------------------------------------- Partners McCann Associates Motorola Solutions The Laser Training Institute FCC Licenses Get Involved Become a Member Become a Certification Administrator Become a State Representative Become a Subject Matter Expert Apply for a Course Approval Join/Create a Student or Local Chapter ----------------------------------------------------- ETA's High Tech News Magazine ETA's Education Forum Attend Industry Events/Training Join National Technical Honor Society Other Certification Maintenance Exam Results and Reviews Industry Links and Resources Replacement Materials Senior and Master Designations Military Reimbursement ------------------------------------------- Trapeza Online Testing ------------------------------------------- Certification Booklet Contact Renewable Energy Home Certifications Renewable Energy Electric Vehicle Technician (EVT) Electric Vehicle Technicians work on vehicles powered solely by electricity. They perform routine maintenance like other mechanics; however, Electric Vehicle Technicians must have extensive knowledge of how lithium-ion batteries and automotive systems interact. In addition, they may replace hydraulically assisted systems with electric–powered systems, such as power-steering pumps or air-conditioning compressors, to improve fuel economy. Certification is for individuals interested in attaining training from an ETA® International approved EV school. In this program students will develop skills in safety, troubleshooting and repairing of Electric Vehicles. Due to the high voltage (300 VDC and above) and safety issues involved, technicians are required to receive specialized training in both knowledge and hands-on skill items. Additional Information FREE retake! ETA allows one free retake with all ETA certification exams after a 30-day waiting period. (This does not apply to FCC exams.) Retakes must be completed within one year of the first exam session. ACCREDITED by the International Certification Accreditation Council (ICAC) EVT Exam Info Price: $200 Type of Certification: Stand-Alone Maintenance Required: Yes Certification Term: 4 Yrs Hands-On Required: Yes Questions on Exam: 100 Passing Score: 75% Passing Score for Safety Portion: 100% Time Allowed to Test: 2 hours Competencies - What's covered? Find a test site Photovoltaic Installer - Level 1 (PVI-LVL1) The Photovoltaic Installer - Level 1 certification provides assessments in solar system installations. Individuals must have hands-on training from an ETA-approved school and be knowledgeable in topics such as solar resources and principles; selection identification; proper installation sequence, performance characteristics and troubleshooting methods; permitting best safety practices; and economical impact. Information from the U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Outlook Handbook, 2014-15 Ed. What They Do Solar photovoltaic (PV) installers, often called PV installers, assemble, install, or maintain solar panel systems on roofs or other structures. Duties PV installers typically do the following: Plan PV system configuration based on customer needs, expectations, and site conditions Connect PV panels to the power grid Install solar modules, panels, or support structures in accordance with building codes and standards Apply weather sealing to equipment being installed  Perform routine PV system maintenance Activate and test PV systems to verify performance Sunlight is considered an environmentally safe source of energy. By way of solar panels, sunlight is transformed into electricity. Recent technological advances have sufficiently reduced the cost of solar panels, making it a viable source of electricity for businesses and homeowners alike. PV installers put these systems in place. PV installers use a variety of hand and power tools to install photovoltaic panels. They often use wrenches, saws, and screwdrivers to connect panels to frames, wires, and support structures. This work is typically done on roofs, where the greatest amount of solar radiation—or sunlight—is captured. Many new workers begin by performing basic tasks, such as installing support structures and placing PV panels or PV shingles on top of them. Once the panels are in place, more experienced installers usually perform more complex duties, such as evaluating sites, planning the layout of solar panels, and connecting electrical components. Depending on the job, PV installers may connect the arrays to the electric grid, although electricians sometimes perform this duty. Once installed, workers check electrical systems for proper wiring, polarity, grounding, or integrity of terminations, and perform maintenance as needed. Work Environment Solar photovoltaic (PV) installers held about 4,800 jobs in 2012. The majority were employed in the construction industry. The industries that employed the most solar photovoltaic installers in 2012 were as follows: Industries % Employed Plumbing, heating, and air-conditioning contractors 34 Electrical contractors and other wiring installation contractors 22 Power and communication line and related structures construction 12 Although most PV installation is done outdoors, installers often work in attics and crawl spaces to connect panels to the electric grid. Those who work on rooftops must climb ladders. PV installers may work alone or as part of a team. Installation of an array may require the help of roofers and electricians as well as solar photovoltaic installers. Workers must travel to job sites.  Injuries and Illnesses Solar photovoltaic installers risk falls from ladders and roofs, electrical shocks, and burns from hot equipment and materials while installing and maintaining PV systems. Work Schedules Nearly all solar photovoltaic installers work full time, which may include evenings and weekends. They often are required to be on call to handle emergencies. Pay The median annual wage for solar photovoltaic installers was $37,900 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $26,250, and the top 10 percent earned more than $57,980. In May 2012, the median annual wages for solar photovoltaic installers in the top three industries in which these installers worked were as follows: Industry Salary Power and communication line and related structures construction $41,250 Plumbing, heating, and air-conditioning contractors $39,520 Electrical contractors and other wiring installation contractors $32,470 Nearly all solar photovoltaic installers work full time, which may include evenings and weekends. They are often required to be on call to handle emergencies. Job Outlook Employment of solar photovoltaic (PV) installers is projected to grow 24 percent from 2012 to 2022, much faster than the average for all occupations. However, because it is a small occupation, the fast growth will result in only about 1,200 new jobs over the 10-year period. The rapid expansion and adoption of solar panel installation is expected to create new jobs. As the cost of PV panels and shingles continue to fall, more residential households are expected to take advantage of these systems, resulting in greater demand for the workers who install them. The long-term outlook, however, is heavily dependent on government incentives, cost, and the continuing efficiency of PV panels. States and localities that provide incentives to reduce the cost of PV systems should experience greater demand for workers. Common incentives include tax rebates, direct subsidies, renewable energy purchase mandates, and net metering. The development of solar leasing should create additional demand, as homeowners no longer must bear the upfront costs of installation. Job Prospects PV installers who complete training at a 2-year technical school will have the best job opportunities. Those with apprenticeship or journey electrician experience will also have very good job opportunities. Workers with experience in construction occupations, such as laborers, roofers, and carpenters will have better job opportunities than those without construction experience. Employment of PV installers fluctuates with the overall economy. On the one hand, there is great demand for PV installers during peak periods of building activity. On the other hand, workers may experience periods of unemployment when the overall level of construction falls. There is less maintenance performed by many PV installers as compared to other construction occupations, so most work should be for installation and not maintenance. SOC Code: 47-2231 Additional Information FREE retake! ETA allows one free retake with all ETA certification exams after a 30-day waiting period. (This does not apply to FCC exams.) Retakes must be completed within one year of the first exam session. ACCREDITED by the International Certification Accreditation Council (ICAC) ETA is proud to partner with eITprep to offer an online study resource for this ETA certification - only $59.95! You will have 6 months to complete the content. These courses are for self-study or certification maintenance purposes only, and do not lead to certification. You will need to sit for the appropriate exam by contacting an ETA Certification Administrator and/or ETA-Approved School. PVI-LVL1 Exam Info Price: $150 Type of Certification: Stand-Alone Maintenance Required: Yes Certification Term: 4 Yrs Hands-On Required: Yes Questions on Exam: 75 Passing Score: 75% Time Allowed to Test: 2 hours Competencies - What's covered? Find a test site Small Wind Installer - Level 1 (SWI-LVL1) The Small Wind Installer - Level 1 certification provides practical assessments in wind power energy generation under 100 kW. Hands-on training from an ETA-approved school is necessary and individuals should be educated in the following topics include: theory of wind energy and electrical generation; site evaluation; design and selection of wind systems; proper installation, components and troubleshooting methods; safety; finance; and environmental assessment and management. Additional Information FREE retake! ETA allows one free retake with all ETA certification exams after a 30-day waiting period. (This does not apply to FCC exams.) Retakes must be completed within one year of the first exam session. ACCREDITED by the International Certification Accreditation Council (ICAC) ETA is proud to partner with eITprep to offer an online study resource for this ETA certification - only $59.95! You will have 6 months to complete the content. These courses are for self-study or certification maintenance purposes only, and do not lead to certification. You will need to sit for the appropriate exam by contacting an ETA Certification Administrator and/or ETA-Approved School. SWI-LVL1 Exam Info Price: $150 Type of Certification: Stand-Alone Maintenance Required: Yes Certification Term: 4 Yrs Hands-On Required: Yes Questions on Exam: 86 Passing Score: 75% Time Allowed to Test: 2 hours Competencies - What's covered? Find a test site About Founded in 1978 by electronics technicians, ETA® International is a not-for-profit 501(c) 6 association whose mission is to represent and support the technical professional. ETA aligns with ISO 17024 standards, vocational and education curriculums, and businesses’ resource initiatives through certification programs, conferences, speaking engagements, books, and other publications. Download ETA's Certification Booklet to see how ETA can help your career, business, or school. Stay Connected Member Login Members can access the Members Only area for current and past issues of the High Tech News, practice exams, and other member benefits. Certification Administrators can also download forms, order exams, and review exam information. Career Resource Center Mobilize your success with ETA’s Career Resource Center (CRC). We offer employers and job seekers a way to connect professionals with the most in-demand careers available. Resume and job postings are FREE. Contact Us 5 Depot Street, Greencastle, IN 46135 (800) 288-3824 (765) 653-8262 (765) 653-4287 eta@eta-i.org www.eta-i.org Subscribe Enter your email to stay up to date with the latest ETA news and offers! 2016 © ETA® International. ALL Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Site Map
