#ThisURL#
http://www.encyclopedia.com/
#SubURL#
http://www.encyclopedia.com/topic/Federal_Reserve_System.aspx
http://www.encyclopedia.com/topic/deportation.aspx
http://www.encyclopedia.com/c/2980-social-sciences-and-law.html
http://www.encyclopedia.com/ref/emancipation-proclamation
http://www.encyclopedia.com/emailus.aspx
https://instagram.com/encyclopediacom
http://www.encyclopedia.com/topic/quantum_theory.aspx
http://www.encyclopedia.com/topic/surrogate_mother.aspx
http://www.encyclopedia.com/topic/Vercingetorix.aspx
http://www.encyclopedia.com/education/nursing-degrees-and-programs/lpn-programs
http://www.encyclopedia.com/c/2987-places.html
https://www.facebook.com/encyclopediacom
https://twitter.com/encyclopediacom
http://www.cengage.com
http://www.omniture.com
#Title#
Encyclopedia.com | Free Online Encyclopedia
#Content#
Research categories RESEARCH CATEGORIES Earth and the Environment History Literature and the Arts Medicine People Philosophy and Religion Places Plants and Animals Science and Technology Social Sciences and the Law Sports and Everyday Life View all reference sources FREE REFERENCE ENTRIES A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z # Reference information you can trust Encyclopedia.com has more than 100 trusted sources, including encyclopedias, dictionaries, and thesauruses with facts, definitions, biographies, synonyms, pronunciation keys, word origins, and abbreviations. Featured topics socialized medicine International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences socialized medicine publicly administered system of national health care. The term is used to describe programs that range from government operation of medical facilities to national health-insurance plans. In 1948, Great Britain passed the National Health Service Act that provided free physician and hospital services for all citizens. The system was later amended, now charging a small fee for th... Read more See also: health insurance public health Medicaid Medicare medicine Afghanistan Cities of the World Afghanistan , officially Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, republic (2005 est. pop. 29,929,000), 249,999 sq mi (647,497 sq km), S central Asia. Afghanistan is bordered by Iran on the west, by Pakistan on the east and south, and by Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan on the north; a narrow strip, the Vakhan (Wakhan), extends in the northeast along Pakistan to the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Regio... Read more See also: Pathans Kabul Ahmad Shah Taliban global warming International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences global warming the gradual increase of the temperature of the earth's lower atmosphere as a result of the increase in greenhouse gases since the Industrial Revolution . The temperature of the atmosphere near the earth's surface is warmed through a natural process called the greenhouse effect. Visible, shortwave light comes from the sun to the earth, passing unimpeded through a blanket of therma... Read more See also: plastic surgery Kyoto Protocol air pollution weather Climate change immigration Encyclopedia of American Foreign Policy immigration entrance of a person (an alien ) into a new country for the purpose of establishing permanent residence. Motives for immigration, like those for migration generally, are often economic, although religious or political factors may be very important. High rates of immigration are frequently accompanied by militant, and sometimes violent, calls for immigration restriction or deportation... Read more See also: Ellis Island United States. Immigration and Naturalization Service deportation alien French Revolution International Encyclopedia of the Social Sciences French Revolution political upheaval of world importance in France that began in 1789. Origins of the Revolution Historians disagree in evaluating the factors that brought about the Revolution. To some extent at least, it came not because France was backward, but because the country's economic and intellectual development was not matched by social and political change. In the fixed order of the ... Read more See also: Reign of Terror revolution Commune of Paris France United Nations The Columbia Encyclopedia, 6th ed. United Nations (UN), international organization established immediately after World War II. It replaced the League of Nations . In 1945, when the UN was founded, there were 51 members; 192 nations are now members of the organization (see table entitled United Nations Members ). Organization and Principles The Charter of the United Nations comprises a preamble and 19 chapters divided into 111 a... Read more See also: United Nations Secretaries-General League of Nations United Nations Security Council Federal Reserve System Dictionary of American History Federal Reserve System central banking system of the United States. Established in 1913, it began to operate in Nov., 1914. Its setup, although somewhat altered since its establishment, particularly by the Banking Act of 1935, has remained substantially the same. Structure The Federal Reserve Act created 12 regional Federal Reserve banks, supervised by a Federal Reserve Board. Each reserve bank ... Read more See also: central bank United States Department of the Treasury Federal Reserve Act Monetary Policy food adulteration Encyclopedia of Food and Culture food adulteration act of intentionally debasing the quality of food offered for sale either by the admixture or substitution of inferior substances or by the removal of some valuable ingredient. The Greek and Roman classics contain allusions to wine makers and dealers who colored and flavored their wine. In England as early as the 13th cent., bakers cheapened their wares or scanted the weight, an... Read more See also: Genetically engineered foods Food and Drug Act of 1906 Food and Drug Administration Monsanto Company Tiananmen Square The Columbia Encyclopedia, 6th ed. Tiananmen Square large public square in Beijing , China, on the southern edge of the Inner or Tatar City. The square, named for its Gate of Heavenly Peace (Tiananmen), contains the monument to the heroes of the revolution, the Great Hall of the People, the museum of history and revolution, and the Chairman Mao Zedong Memorial Hall (with Mao's embalmed body). Mao Zedong proclaimed the founding ... Read more See also: Mao Zedong Other popular topics quantum theory income tax autism Pure Land Buddhism Boston Tea Party Cortés, Hernán Pyrenees boric acid environmentalism Caruso, Enrico surrogate mother martial arts Barcelona Leonardo da Vinci horse racing atropine Dardanelles Vercingetorix Jurassic period Kit Carson John Charles Fremont Emancipation Proclamation Abraham Lincoln Quantum Theory Becoming a Police Officer LPN Programs RN to BSN Psychology Degrees Forensic Psychology Online Nursing Programs Nursing Careers Careers Education 2009 SIIA CODiE WINNER Best Online General Reference Service 2010 SIIA CODiE WINNER Best Online Consumer Information Service Home About us Help Site feedback Privacy policy Terms and conditions Encyclopedia.com is operated by Cengage Learning © Copyright 2016. All rights reserved.
