#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-parabola.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/academy/course/tasc-mathematics-prep-and-practice.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-parabola.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/functions-in-algebra.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/projectile-motion-definition-and-examples.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/login.html?cta=bumper
http://study.com/articles/Making_Scholars_Into_Role_Models_Amy_Warner_Discusses_the_Carson_Scholars_Funds_Impact_on_Education.html
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-parabola.html&width=100&
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
What is a Parabola? - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: What is a Parabola? A parabola is the U shape that we get when we graph a quadratic equation. We actually see parabolas all over the place in real life. In this lesson, learn where, and the correct vocab to use when talking about them.  Math 101: College Algebra  /  Math Courses Course Navigator Parabolas in Standard, Intercept, and Vertex FormNext Lesson  What is a Parabola? Chapter 4 /  Lesson 1   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Parabolas Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: Parabolas in Standard, Intercept, and Vertex Form 0:06 Parabolas in Everyday Life 2:00 Defining Spots of a Parabola 2:16 Maximum Height 2:34 Vertex 2:50 Axis of Symmetry 4:04 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 20,213 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses Parabolas in Standard, Intercept, and Vertex Form What is a Quadratic Equation? - Definition & Examples What Is an Exponential Function? Writing Standard-Form Equations for Parabolas: Definition & Explanation Using Quadratic Models to Find Minimum & Maximum Values: Definition, Steps & Example Find the Axis Of Symmetry: Equation, Formula & Vertex Polar and Nonpolar Covalent Bonds: Definitions and Examples The Parabola: Definition & Graphing How to Write the Equation of a Parabola in Standard Form Exponential Growth vs. Decay How to Use the Quadratic Formula to Solve a Quadratic Equation Transformations in Math: Definition & Graph Graphs: Types, Examples & Functions Scatterplot and Correlation: Definition, Example & Analysis What is Slope? - Definition & Formulas What is an Imaginary Number? The Hyperbola: Definition, Vertices, Foci & Graphing What is Translation in Math? - Definition, Examples, & Terms Projectile Motion: Definition and Examples How to Graph Reflections Across Axes, the Origin, and Line Y=X Math 104: Calculus TASC Mathematics: Prep and Practice Business Calculus: Help & Review Common Core Math - Functions: High School Standards Developmental College Statistics AEPA Middle Grades Mathematics: Practice & Study Guide GMAT Prep: Help and Review Remedial Algebra I PCAT: Study Guide & Test Prep ELM: CSU Math Study Guide Math 102: College Mathematics Supplemental Math: Study Aid ACT Prep: Practice & Study Guide High School Algebra I: Help and Review CAHSEE Math Exam: Help and Review Math 103: Precalculus NY Regents Exam - Integrated Algebra: Help and Review CAHSEE Math Exam: Tutoring Solution High School Algebra I: Homework Help Resource High School Precalculus: Homework Help Resource Lesson Transcript Instructor: Luke Winspur Luke has taught high school algebra and geometry, college calculus, and has a master's degree in education. A parabola is the U shape that we get when we graph a quadratic equation. We actually see parabolas all over the place in real life. In this lesson, learn where, and the correct vocab to use when talking about them. Parabolas in Everyday Life These vertices are also the maximum heights of the parabolas A big part of a college algebra class is getting introduced to the different types of relationships we see in math. The most basic is a linear function, which only has plain xs (such as y = 2x + 4). But once you get past those, the next step is to a quadratic function , which has xˆ2s (such as y = x^2 + 4). There's a lot to learn about quadratics, but the best place to start is with their graphs. Anytime you graph a quadratic equation you end up with what is called a parabola. Parabolas have been behind the scenes of sports, celebrations, and wars for ages. When the first javelin was thrown in the Greek Olympics, or when the first firework was launched in China, or even when the first cannon was fired in the Civil War, they all flew through the air in the shape of a parabola. Today, parabolas are still around in things just like this, but they've also made their way into more modern inventions, like video games. Back around 2007, I actually had an idea for a video game that would use parabolas. I thought it might be fun to just shoot things across the screen. So, what if these birds had their eggs stolen by some pigs, and the birds got really angry and wanted to get back at the pigs to get their eggs back. Maybe we could make these birds shoot across the screen with slingshots, and see if we could attack the pigs and get our eggs back. So, here we've got a likely scenario. Let's try to launch our bird that's really angry at that mean old pig, and let it fly. Eh, we missed. Let's try again. I want to aim up a little bit more this time, let's try again. And, yeah! We got him. The game draws in those little dots to help you aim your shots, but the path they sketch out is actually a perfect parabola. Notice that depending on the angle we launch the bird at, we get a slightly different shape. But, even if we shot the bird almost straight up, or even really close to the ground, it would still be a parabola because there are lots of different kinds. The line in the middle of a parabola represents the axis of symmetry; the arrows point to the roots Defining Spots of a Parabola Depending on how we shoot the bird, each parabola would have a different maximum height, which is our first vocabulary word. The maximum is the highest y-value that the parabola reaches. In this case, that represents the height that the bird gets. The name of the actual point on the parabola where it gets to the maximum is our second vocab word; it's called the vertex. You might say that the vertex is in the middle of the parabola. That's because the parabolas are symmetrical, they're the same on either side. This means our third vocab word is the line that goes straight down through the middle of the parabola to divide it in half. It's called, the axis of symmetry. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Just like any other graph, parabolas' intercepts where the curve intersects either the x or the y-axis. In parabola word problems, the x-intercepts will often be the place where your flying object hits the ground, just like here. These x-intercepts of quadratic equations (and also bigger functions) can also be called roots. The vertices for concave up parabolas indicate minimum heights For our last few vocabulary terms, we'll need to abandon our video game analogy, or maybe, imagine a new version on some crazy backwards planet where gravity is upside down. This is because parabolas can be concave down like the examples we've been talking about, or concave up, which means the whole shape is just flipped upside down. All the vocab we've talked about is exactly the same for concave up parabolas except one. Now, instead of our vertices being a maximum, they indicate the minimum that the parabola will reach. Lesson Summary To review, parabolas are the shape that graphs of quadratic equations take. They look kind of like a big letter U, and happen anytime something is launched into the air. They can be concave up or concave down, have vertices where a maximum or minimum happens, intercepts where they cross one of the two axes and an axis of symmetry that divides them in half. Lesson Objectives By the end of this lesson you'll be able to: Know what parabolas look like Remember the behaviors and characteristics that a parabola can possess Understand the difference between concave-up and concave down parabolas To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the Math 101: College Algebra page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Top Schools for Math How You Can Overcome Math Anxiety Rethinking Remedial Math Education The Next Campus Rockstar: a Math Student? This Is Your Brain on Math Tau Day Generates Controversy Among Math Scholars Learn Math in the Blogosphere: 10 Top Math Blogs Register for the 2010 American Math Challenge Universities with Master's Degrees in Math: How to Choose Registration Open for World Math Day Online Professional Writing Certificate Program Overviews How to Become a Certified Midwife: Education and Career Roadmap Can I Become a Registered Dietitian Through Online Courses? Sunset Hills, Missouri Education and City Information Bedford, Massachusetts Education and City Information Boone, North Carolina (NC) Colleges Alpharetta GA City and Higher Education Information Medical Insurance Coding Degree Programs in Sacramento × Course Navigator  Back To Course Math 101: College Algebra 11 chapters | 81 lessons 1 - Foundations of Linear Equations Go to Foundations of Linear Equations 2 - Matrices and Absolute Value Go to Matrices and Absolute Value 3 - Inequalities Go to Inequalities 4 - Factoring with FOIL, Graphing Parabolas and Solving... What is a Parabola? 4:36 6:15 Next Lesson Parabolas in Standard, Intercept, and Vertex Form Multiplying Binomials Using FOIL and the Area Method 7:26 Multiplying Binomials Using FOIL & the Area Method: Practice Problems 5:46 How to Factor Quadratic Equations: FOIL in Reverse 8:50 Factoring Quadratic Equations: Polynomial Problems with a Non-1 Leading Coefficient 7:35 How to Complete the Square 8:43 Completing the Square Practice Problems 7:31 How to Solve a Quadratic Equation by Factoring 7:53 How to Use the Quadratic Formula to Solve a Quadratic Equation 9:20 How to Solve Quadratics That Are Not in Standard Form 6:14 Go to Factoring with FOIL, Graphing Parabolas and Solving Quadratics 5 - Complex Numbers Go to Complex Numbers 6 - Exponents and Polynomials Go to Exponents and Polynomials 7 - Functions Go to Functions 8 - Rational Expressions Go to Rational Expressions 9 - Exponentials and Logarithms Go to Exponentials and Logarithms 10 - Probability Mechanics Go to Probability Mechanics 11 - Sequences and Series Go to Sequences and Series Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
