#ThisURL#
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Marie-Curie
#SubURL#
http://www.britannica.com/topic/matter
http://www.britannica.com/science/uranium
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Georges-Charpak
http://www.britannica.com/quiz/cervantes
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Gabriel-Lippmann
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Henri-Moissan
http://www.britannica.com/quiz/browse
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Eve-Curie
http://www.britannica.com/biography/Marie-Curie/images-videos/Marie-Curie-driving-a-Renault-automobile-converted-into-a-mobile/137781
http://www.britannica.com/story/is-holland-the-same-place-as-the-netherlands
http://corporate.britannica.com/publishing-partner-program
https://safe1.britannica.com/registrations2/signup.do?partnerCode=EBOK_300x50_A
http://info.eb.com
http://corporate.britannica.com/termsofuse.html
http://corporate.britannica.com/contact/consumer/
https://safe1.britannica.com/registrations2/signup.do?partnerCode=EBOPPGSUB_LP_MDL_C
http://corporate.britannica.com/privacy.html
http://corporate.britannica.com
#Title#
Marie Curie | Polish-born French physicist | Britannica.com
#Content#
School and Library Subscribers JOIN LOGIN Activate Your Free Trial! stories quizzes galleries lists Marie Curie Article Web sites Bibliography Additional Information Contributors Polish-born French physicist Written by: The Editors of Encyclopædia Britannica SHARE Read View All Media (15) View History Edit Feedback Alternative title: Maria Salomea Skłodowska Marie CuriePolish-born French physicist Also known as Maria Salomea Skłodowska born November 7, 1867 Warsaw, Poland died July 4, 1934 near Sallanches, France Marie Curie, née Maria Salomea Skłodowska (born November 7, 1867, Warsaw, Congress Kingdom of Poland, Russian Empire—died July 4, 1934, near Sallanches, France), Polish-born French physicist, famous for her work on radioactivity and twice a winner of the Nobel Prize. With Henri Becquerel and her husband, Pierre Curie, she was awarded the 1903 Nobel Prize for Physics. She was the sole winner of the 1911 Nobel Prize for Chemistry. She was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, and she is the only woman to win the award in two different fields. Curie, Marie: with sister, Bronisława Skłodowska, 1886© Photos.com/JupiterimagesFrom childhood she was remarkable for her prodigious memory, and at the age of 16 she won a gold medal on completion of her secondary education at the Russian lycée. Because her father, a teacher of mathematics and physics, lost his savings through bad investment, she had to take work as a teacher and, at the same time, took part clandestinely in the nationalist “free university,” reading in Polish to women workers. At the age of 18 she took a post as governess, where she suffered an unhappy love affair. From her earnings she was able to finance her sister Bronisława’s medical studies in Paris, with the understanding that Bronisława would in turn later help her to get an education. Curie, MarieBettmann/CorbisIn 1891 Skłodowska went to Paris and, now using the name Marie, began to follow the lectures of Paul Appel, Gabriel Lippmann, and Edmond Bouty at the Sorbonne. There she met physicists who were already well known—Jean Perrin, Charles Maurain, and Aimé Cotton. Skłodowska worked far into the night in her student-quarters garret and virtually lived on bread and butter and tea. She came first in the licence of physical sciences in 1893. She began to work in Lippmann’s research laboratory and in 1894 was placed second in the licence of mathematical sciences. It was in the spring of that year that she met Pierre Curie. Curie, Pierre: Pierre and Marie Curie on their honeymoon, 1895Photos.com/JupiterimagesTheir marriage (July 25, 1895) marked the start of a partnership that was soon to achieve results of world significance, in particular the discovery of polonium (so called by Marie in honour of her native land) in the summer of 1898 and that of radium a few months later. Following Henri Becquerel’s discovery (1896) of a new phenomenon (which she later called “radioactivity”), Marie Curie, looking for a subject for a thesis, decided to find out if the property discovered in uranium was to be found in other matter. She discovered that this was true for thorium at the same time as G.C. Schmidt did. Curie, Pierre: Marie and Pierre Curie, and chemist Gustave BémontPhotos.com/ThinkstockTurning her attention to minerals, she found her interest drawn to pitchblende, a mineral whose activity, superior to that of pure uranium, could be explained only by the presence in the ore of small quantities of an unknown substance of very high activity. Pierre Curie then joined her in the work that she had undertaken to resolve this problem and that led to the discovery of the new elements, polonium and radium. While Pierre Curie devoted himself chiefly to the physical study of the new radiations, Marie Curie struggled to obtain pure radium in the metallic state—achieved with the help of the chemist André-Louis Debierne, one of Pierre Curie’s pupils. On the results of this research, Marie Curie received her doctorate of science in June 1903 and, with Pierre, was awarded the Davy Medal of the Royal Society. Also in 1903 they shared with Becquerel the Nobel Prize for Physics for the discovery of radioactivity. Curie, Marie: with her daughters, Ève and Irène© Photos.com/JupiterimagesThe birth of her two daughters, Irène and Ève, in 1897 and 1904 did not interrupt Marie’s intensive scientific work. She was appointed lecturer in physics at the École Normale Supérieure for girls in Sèvres (1900) and introduced there a method of teaching based on experimental demonstrations. In December 1904 she was appointed chief assistant in the laboratory directed by Pierre Curie. The sudden death of Pierre Curie (April 19, 1906) was a bitter blow to Marie Curie, but it was also a decisive turning point in her career: henceforth she was to devote all her energy to completing alone the scientific work that they had undertaken. On May 13, 1906, she was appointed to the professorship that had been left vacant on her husband’s death; she was the first woman to teach in the Sorbonne. In 1908 she became titular professor, and in 1910 her fundamental treatise on radioactivity was published. In 1911 she was awarded the Nobel Prize for Chemistry, for the isolation of pure radium. In 1914 she saw the completion of the building of the laboratories of the Radium Institute (Institut du Radium) at the University of Paris. Curie, Marie: driving a mobile radiological unit, 1914© Photos.com/JupiterimagesThroughout World War I, Marie Curie, with the help of her daughter Irène, devoted herself to the development of the use of X-radiography. In 1918 the Radium Institute, the staff of which Irène had joined, began to operate in earnest, and it was to become a universal centre for nuclear physics and chemistry. Marie Curie, now at the highest point of her fame and, from 1922, a member of the Academy of Medicine, devoted her researches to the study of the chemistry of radioactive substances and the medical applications of these substances. Curie, Marie: in laboratory at the University of Paris, 1925AFP/Getty ImagesIn 1921, accompanied by her two daughters, Marie Curie made a triumphant journey to the United States, where President Warren G. Harding presented her with a gram of radium bought as the result of a collection among American women. She gave lectures, especially in Belgium, Brazil, Spain, and Czechoslovakia. She was made a member of the International Commission on Intellectual Co-operation by the Council of the League of Nations. In addition, she had the satisfaction of seeing the development of the Curie Foundation in Paris and the inauguration in 1932 in Warsaw of the Radium Institute, of which her sister Bronisława became director. Curie, Marie© Photos.com/JupiterimagesOne of Marie Curie’s outstanding achievements was to have understood the need to accumulate intense radioactive sources, not only to treat illness but also to maintain an abundant supply for research in nuclear physics; the resultant stockpile was an unrivaled instrument until the appearance after 1930 of particle accelerators. The existence in Paris at the Radium Institute of a stock of 1.5 grams of radium in which, over a period of several years, radium D and polonium had accumulated made a decisive contribution to the success of the experiments undertaken in the years around 1930 and in particular of those performed by Irène Curie in conjunction with Frédéric Joliot, whom she had married in 1926 (see Joliot-Curie, Frédéric and Irène). This work prepared the way for the discovery of the neutron by Sir James Chadwick and, above all, for the discovery in 1934 by Irène and Frédéric Joliot-Curie of artificial radioactivity. A few months after this discovery, Marie Curie died as a result of leukemia caused by the action of radiation. Her contribution to physics had been immense, not only in her own work, the importance of which had been demonstrated by the award to her of two Nobel Prizes, but because of her influence on subsequent generations of nuclear physicists and chemists. Marie Curie, together with Irène Joliot-Curie, wrote the entry on radium for the 13th edition (1926) of the Encyclopædia Britannica. In 1995 Marie Curie’s ashes were enshrined in the Panthéon in Paris; she was the first woman to receive this honour for her own achievements. Her office and laboratory in the Curie Pavilion of the Radium Institute are preserved as the Curie Museum. Comments Share SHARE Email Print Cite Last Updated 2-15-2016 You may also be interested in... Pierre Curie Frédéric Joliot-Curie Irène Joliot-Curie Ernest Rutherford, Baron Rutherford of Nelson Otto Hahn Henri Becquerel Edwin Mattison McMillan Henri Moissan Francis William Aston Sir James Chadwick Gabriel Lippmann Georges Charpak Keep exploring Ins and Outs of Chemistry Chemistry and Biology: Fact or Fiction? Chemistry: Fact or Fiction? 5 Notorious Greenhouse Gases 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms What made you want to look up Marie Curie? To From Subject Comments (Please limit to 900 characters) Cancel Britannica Stories In The News / Health & Medicine Zika Proven to Cause Microcephaly Demystified / Geography Is "Holland" the Same Place as "the Netherlands"? Spotlight / History The Unsinkable Titanic See All Stories BRITANNICA QUIZZES Canines vs. Felines Africa’s Physical Features Cervantes See More Quizzes About Us About Our Ads Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use ©2016 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Citations MLA style: "Marie Curie". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2016 <http://www.britannica.com/biography/Marie-Curie>. APA style: Marie Curie. (2016). In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/biography/Marie-Curie Harvard style: Marie Curie. 2016. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 14 April, 2016, from http://www.britannica.com/biography/Marie-Curie Chicago Manual of Style: Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v. "Marie Curie", accessed April 14, 2016, http://www.britannica.com/biography/Marie-Curie. While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Update Link Click anywhere inside the article to add text or insert superscripts, subscripts, and special characters. You can also highlight a section and use the tools in this bar to modify existing content: Add links to related Britannica articles! You can double-click any word or highlight a word or phrase in the text below and then select an article from the search box. Or, simply highlight a word or phrase in the article, then enter the article name or term you'd like to link to in the search box below, and select from the list of results. Note: we do not allow links to external resources in editor. Please click the Web sites link for this article to add citations for external Web sites. Editing Tools: Tips for Editing Leave Edit Mode Submit We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind: Encyclopaedia Britannica articles are written in a neutral, objective tone for a general audience. You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered. Any text you add should be original, not copied from other sources. At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are best.) Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions. MEDIA FOR: Marie Curie Citation MLA APA Harvard Chicago Email To: From: Comment: You have successfully emailed this. Error when sending the email. Try again later. Or click Continue to submit anonymously: Continue
