#ThisURL#
http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/172481/W-E-B-Du-Bois
#SubURL#
http://www.britannica.com/quiz/countries-of-the-world-
http://www.britannica.com/quiz/cervantes
http://www.britannica.com/place/Great-Barrington
http://www.britannica.com/quiz/browse
http://www.britannica.com/biography/W-E-B-Du-Bois/images-videos/WEB/73456
http://www.britannica.com/story/is-holland-the-same-place-as-the-netherlands
http://www.britannica.com/topic/Niagara-Movement
http://www.britannica.com/biography/W-E-B-Du-Bois/article-bibliography
http://www.britannica.com/event/American-Civil-War
http://www.britannica.com/list/6-lady-pirates
http://corporate.britannica.com/publishing-partner-program
https://safe1.britannica.com/registrations2/signup.do?partnerCode=EBOK_300x50_A
http://info.eb.com
http://corporate.britannica.com/termsofuse.html
http://corporate.britannica.com/contact/consumer/
https://safe1.britannica.com/registrations2/signup.do?partnerCode=EBOPPGSUB_LP_MDL_A
http://corporate.britannica.com/privacy.html
http://corporate.britannica.com
#Title#
W. E. B. Du Bois | American sociologist and social reformer | Britannica.com
#Content#
School and Library Subscribers JOIN LOGIN Activate Your Free Trial! stories quizzes galleries lists W. E. B. Du Bois Article Web sites Bibliography Additional Information Contributors American sociologist and social reformer Written by: Elliott Rudwick SHARE Read View All Media (3) View History Edit Feedback Alternative title: William Edward Burghardt Du Bois W. E. B. Du BoisAmerican sociologist and social reformer Also known as William Edward Burghardt Du Bois born February 23, 1868 Great Barrington, Massachusetts died August 27, 1963 Accra, Ghana W. E. B. Du Bois, in full William Edward Burghardt Du Bois (born February 23, 1868, Great Barrington, Massachusetts, U.S.—died August 27, 1963, Accra, Ghana), American sociologist, the most important black protest leader in the United States during the first half of the 20th century. He shared in the creation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in 1909 and edited The Crisis, its magazine, from 1910 to 1934. Late in life he became identified with communist causes. Early career Du Bois, W. E. B.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.Du Bois graduated from Fisk University, a black institution at Nashville, Tennessee, in 1888. He received a Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1895. His doctoral dissertation, The Suppression of the African Slave-Trade to the United States of America, 1638–1870, was published in 1896. Although Du Bois took an advanced degree in history, he was broadly trained in the social sciences; and, at a time when sociologists were theorizing about race relations, he was conducting empirical inquiries into the condition of blacks. For more than a decade he devoted himself to sociological investigations of blacks in America, producing 16 research monographs published between 1897 and 1914 at Atlanta (Georgia) University, where he was a professor, as well as The Philadelphia Negro; A Social Study (1899), the first case study of a black community in the United States. Although Du Bois had originally believed that social science could provide the knowledge to solve the race problem, he gradually came to the conclusion that in a climate of virulent racism, expressed in such evils as lynching, peonage, disfranchisement, Jim Crow segregation laws, and race riots, social change could be accomplished only through agitation and protest. In this view, he clashed with the most influential black leader of the period, Booker T. Washington, who, preaching a philosophy of accommodation, urged blacks to accept discrimination for the time being and elevate themselves through hard work and economic gain, thus winning the respect of the whites. In 1903, in his famous book The Souls of Black Folk, Du Bois charged that Washington’s strategy, rather than freeing the black man from oppression, would serve only to perpetuate it. This attack crystallized the opposition to Booker T. Washington among many black intellectuals, polarizing the leaders of the black community into two wings—the “conservative” supporters of Washington and his “radical” critics. Two years later, in 1905, Du Bois took the lead in founding the Niagara Movement, which was dedicated chiefly to attacking the platform of Booker T. Washington. The small organization, which met annually until 1909, was seriously weakened by internal squabbles and Washington’s opposition. But it was significant as an ideological forerunner and direct inspiration for the interracial NAACP, founded in 1909. Du Bois played a prominent part in the creation of the NAACP and became the association’s director of research and editor of its magazine, The Crisis. In this role he wielded an unequaled influence among middle-class blacks and progressive whites as the propagandist for the black protest from 1910 until 1934. Both in the Niagara Movement and in the NAACP, Du Bois acted mainly as an integrationist, but his thinking always exhibited, to varying degrees, separatist-nationalist tendencies. In The Souls of Black Folk he had expressed the characteristic dualism of black Americans: One ever feels his twoness—an American, a Negro; two souls, two thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; two warring ideals in one dark body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder.…He simply wishes to make it possible for a man to be both a Negro and an American, without being cursed and spit upon by his fellows, without having the doors of Opportunity closed roughly in his face. Black nationalism and socialism Du Bois’s black nationalism took several forms—the most influential being his pioneering advocacy of Pan-Africanism, the belief that all people of African descent had common interests and should work together in the struggle for their freedom. Du Bois was a leader of the first Pan-African Conference in London in 1900 and the architect of four Pan-African Congresses held between 1919 and 1927. Second, he articulated a cultural nationalism. As the editor of The Crisis, he encouraged the development of black literature and art and urged his readers to see “Beauty in Black.” Third, Du Bois’s black nationalism is seen in his belief that blacks should develop a separate “group economy” of producers’ and consumers’ cooperatives as a weapon for fighting economic discrimination and black poverty. This doctrine became especially important during the economic catastrophe of the 1930s and precipitated an ideological struggle within the NAACP. He resigned from the editorship of The Crisis and the NAACP in 1934, yielding his influence as a race leader and charging that the organization was dedicated to the interests of the black bourgeoisie and ignored the problems of the masses. Du Bois’s interest in cooperatives was a part of his nationalism that developed out of his Marxist leanings. At the turn of the century, he had been an advocate of black capitalism and black support of black business, but by about 1905 he had been drawn toward socialist doctrines. Although he joined the Socialist Party only briefly in 1912, he remained sympathetic with Marxist ideas throughout the rest of his life. Upon leaving the NAACP, he returned to Atlanta University, where he devoted the next 10 years to teaching and scholarship. In 1940 he founded the magazine Phylon, Atlanta University’s “Review of Race and Culture.” In 1945 he published the “Preparatory Volume” of a projected encyclopaedia of the black, for which he had been appointed editor in chief. He also produced two major books during this period. Black Reconstruction: An Essay Toward a History of the Part Which Black Folk Played in the Attempt to Reconstruct Democracy in America, 1860–1880 (1935) was an important Marxist interpretation of the Reconstruction era (the period following the American Civil War during which the seceded Southern states were reorganized according to the wishes of Congress), and, more significantly, it provided the first synthesis of existing knowledge of the role of blacks in that critical period of American history. In 1940 appeared Dusk of Dawn, subtitled An Essay Toward an Autobiography of a Race Concept. In this brilliant book, Du Bois explained his role in both the African and the African American struggles for freedom, viewing his career as an ideological case study illuminating the complexity of the black-white conflict. Following this fruitful decade at Atlanta University, he returned once more to a research position at the NAACP (1944–48). This brief connection ended in a second bitter quarrel, and thereafter Du Bois moved steadily leftward politically. Identified with pro-Russian causes, he was indicted in 1951 as an unregistered agent for a foreign power. Although a federal judge directed his acquittal, Du Bois had become completely disillusioned with the United States. In 1961 he joined the Communist Party and, moving to Ghana, renounced his American citizenship more than a year later. The Autobiography of W.E.B. Du Bois was published in 1968.Elliott Rudwick Comments Share SHARE Email Print Cite Last Updated 3-8-2016 You may also be interested in... John Hope Charles Spurgeon Johnson Frederick Douglass Stanley Crouch Jessie Redmon Fauset Martin R. Delany Lydia Maria Child Alice Stone Blackwell Benjamin L. Hooks Sonia Sanchez Barack Obama Henry Grunwald Keep exploring USA Facts Human Geography Quiz Countries of the World Swashbuckling Sisters: 6 Lady Pirates Our Days Are Numbered: 7 Crazy Facts About Calendars What made you want to look up W. E. B. Du Bois? To From Subject Comments (Please limit to 900 characters) Cancel Britannica Stories In The News / Health & Medicine Zika Proven to Cause Microcephaly Demystified / Geography Is "Holland" the Same Place as "the Netherlands"? Spotlight / History The Unsinkable Titanic See All Stories BRITANNICA QUIZZES Canines vs. Felines Africa’s Physical Features Cervantes See More Quizzes About Us About Our Ads Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use ©2016 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Citations MLA style: "W. E. B. Du Bois". Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2016 <http://www.britannica.com/biography/W-E-B-Du-Bois>. APA style: W. E. B. Du Bois. (2016). In Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved from http://www.britannica.com/biography/W-E-B-Du-Bois Harvard style: W. E. B. Du Bois. 2016. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Retrieved 14 April, 2016, from http://www.britannica.com/biography/W-E-B-Du-Bois Chicago Manual of Style: Encyclopædia Britannica Online, s. v. "W. E. B. Du Bois", accessed April 14, 2016, http://www.britannica.com/biography/W-E-B-Du-Bois. While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Update Link Click anywhere inside the article to add text or insert superscripts, subscripts, and special characters. You can also highlight a section and use the tools in this bar to modify existing content: Add links to related Britannica articles! You can double-click any word or highlight a word or phrase in the text below and then select an article from the search box. Or, simply highlight a word or phrase in the article, then enter the article name or term you'd like to link to in the search box below, and select from the list of results. Note: we do not allow links to external resources in editor. Please click the Web sites link for this article to add citations for external Web sites. Editing Tools: Tips for Editing Leave Edit Mode Submit We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind: Encyclopaedia Britannica articles are written in a neutral, objective tone for a general audience. You may find it helpful to search within the site to see how similar or related subjects are covered. Any text you add should be original, not copied from other sources. At the bottom of the article, feel free to list any sources that support your changes, so that we can fully understand their context. (Internet URLs are best.) Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions. MEDIA FOR: W. E. B. Du Bois Citation MLA APA Harvard Chicago Email To: From: Comment: You have successfully emailed this. Error when sending the email. Try again later. Or click Continue to submit anonymously: Continue
