#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/writing-for-your-audience.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/Make_Your_Writing_Shine_Tips_for_Perfect_Usage.html
http://study.com/academy/course/developmental-college-composition.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/articles/Masters_in_ABA_Therapy_Info_on_Applied_Behavioral_Analysis_Programs.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/writing-for-your-audience.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/login.html?cta=bumper
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/writing-for-your-audience.html&width=100&
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Writing for Your Audience - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: Writing for Your Audience By understanding some fundamental characteristics about your audience, you can write more effectively and be in better control of how well your writing is received by that audience. This video explains the basic points that you should consider in order to provide more informative and more persuasive essays for your readers.  English 104: College Composition  /  English Courses Course Navigator How to Edit and Improve Essay ContentNext Lesson  Writing for Your Audience Chapter 6 /  Lesson 5   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - How to Write for Your Audience Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: How to Edit and Improve Essay Content 0:07 Writing for your Audience 1:27 What is the Reader's Position? 2:51 What is the Reader's… 4:10 What Level of… 5:51 What Do You Want Your… 7:51 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 10,409 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses What is Audience in Writing? - Definition & Examples Parts of An Argument: Claims, Counterclaims, Reasons, and Evidence How to Analyze a Literary Passage: A Step-by-Step Guide What is Writing Style? - Types & Examples Logos, Ethos and Pathos: 3 Ways to Appeal to an Audience in Essays What is Theme in Literature? - Definition & Examples Point of View: First, Second & Third Person Essay Introduction: Write a Thesis and Capture Your Audience Descriptive Essay: Definition, Examples & Characteristics Poetic Devices: Definition, Types & Examples Elements of Drama: Characters, Plot, Setting & Symbolism Informative Essay: Definition, Examples & Structure How to Write a Great Essay Quickly Tone, Audience & Purpose in Essays What is a Preposition? - Definition, Uses & Examples Effective Prewriting: Instructions and Examples Emotive Language: Definition, Effects & Examples How to Write Strong Transitions and Transitional Sentences Objective Writing: Definition & Examples Descriptive Writing: Definition, Techniques & Examples AP English Literature: Help and Review ACT Prep: Practice & Study Guide AP English Literature: Homework Help Resource AP English Literature: Tutoring Solution PSAT Prep: Help and Review NMTA Essential Academic Skills Subtest Writing: Practice & Study Guide Romeo and Juliet by Shakespeare: Study Guide Shakespeare Study Guide College 101: College Readiness Remedial 11th Grade English THEA Test: Practice & Study Guide 11th Grade English: Credit Recovery Developmental College Composition English 101: English Literature English 102: American Literature GED Language Arts Part II: Writing College English Composition: Help and Review SAT Literature: Help and Review 11th Grade English: Help and Review GED Language Arts Part I: Reading Lesson Transcript Instructor: Amy Bonn Amy has taught college and law school writing courses and has a master's degree in English and a law degree. By understanding some fundamental characteristics about your audience, you can write more effectively and be in better control of how well your writing is received by that audience. This video explains the basic points that you should consider in order to provide more informative and more persuasive essays for your readers. Writing for Your Audience Have you ever had one of those nightmares where you've been handed a test by a teacher, and it's filled with terms you've never heard of, and it asks questions that you have no idea how to answer? Or maybe you've dreamed that you've received an email from your boss, and she's demanding that you complete a bunch of tasks that you have no idea how to do? Dreams like that are so stressful because they strike at a fear that we don't know what we're supposed to know or that we've been given tasks that were really meant for some other person, and we're just unprepared to do them. The flip side of this is that we feel comfortable when we're given test questions or job assignments, and we recognize the terminology. We understand the problems that we're being asked to solve. In other words, it's good when something written and the person reading it mesh together well. It's important in writing that the writer knows and understands his or her audience and that the writer tailors what he or she writes for that audience. We have an instinctive understanding of this as readers, but what can be a little trickier is learning to do this as writers. To ensure that you're doing a good job of writing for your audience, there are four important points to keep in mind: What is the reader's position with respect to you? What is the reader's perspective? Does the reader have a particular role or position that makes him or her biased about the topic you're writing about, for example? What level of knowledge does the reader have about your topic? What do you want your reader to take away from what you write? What is the Reader's Position? As you probably already know from school, work and everyday life, it's important to think about your reader's position when you write something. And by position, I mean how that person is situated with respect to you. It's common sense to know that when we write a paper to submit to a teacher, we're trying to demonstrate what we've learned in class. When we type up a proposal or even just an email to a boss at work, we're trying to do our work well, because our job may depend on it. In each of these cases, we're writing to our superior - our teacher or our boss is above us in some way, and the work that we write reflects that. When writing something for a teacher or a boss, you should write in a formal tone. In writing, tone is a term we often use to describe our attitude toward our subject matter. A writer's tone comes across in the types of words he or she chooses. For example, in a very formal essay, it's not a good idea to use contractions, and we shouldn't use informal words like 'guy' or 'kid' or conversational phrases like 'tons of.' Because you'll usually be trying to impress a teacher or a boss with what you write, you should take care to write using a formal tone, to edit and proofread your work carefully and to be sure that you've fully answered whatever questions you've been asked. The rules are quite different, of course, if you're sending a quick text message to a close friend. When you're texting a friend, contractions, conversational language and even emoticons are fine. When writing, it's crucial to remember who your audience is and to tailor your writing style for that audience. What is the Reader's Perspective? It's also a good idea to be aware of your reader's general perspective on an issue when you write. For example, many people have an opinion on the issue of whether high school students should be allowed to bring their cell phones into the classroom, and their opinions are often determined by their perspectives - by who they are. Many teenagers would support or oppose the idea of being allowed to bring cell phones to class simply on the basis of whether having a cell phone in class would benefit them. We could probably expect that the idea would be pretty popular among high school kids, but many teachers, on the other hand, probably wouldn't like the idea too much if they don't want a bunch of distracted kids in their classrooms. So if you were to write an essay in which you argued in favor of high school students being allowed to have cell phones in class, that essay would be quite different depending on whether you were writing for an audience of high school students or teachers. And that's because we know that the members of those two groups have their own interests in mind. So if you were to write in favor of allowing cell phones in high school classrooms and your audience were a group of teachers, you'd have to come up with ways that teachers could benefit from that policy. You would have to make an appeal to that group's interests. You might argue, for example, that in the wake of so many violent incidents in schools, allowing students to have cell phones is a basic matter of safety. Clearly, though, a group of teachers would be a much tougher crowd to convince on this issue than a group of high schoolers would be. What Level of Knowledge Does the Reader Have? Think back to our nightmare situation from earlier - about having panic-inducing bad dreams about trying to take a test but not understanding any of the words on the sheet or about your boss sending you an email about work that you don't understand. You definitely don't want your audience's reaction to be horror when they read an essay you've written. (There are, of course, exceptions, but we'll save 'How to Write an Effective Vampire Essay' for another day.) To prevent a scary reaction on the part of your reader, you should take into account what your reader knows about your topic as you write. The reader's knowledge of your subject might depend in part on his or her age or level of education, for example. Think about what background information your reader might need to be brought up to speed on your topic. Are there any facts, processes or techniques that need to be explained? Any terms that need to be defined? Let's say that you're writing about what a lawyer needs to do to get a photograph admitted into evidence during a trial. If your audience were a lawyer that hadn't ever had to do that yet, you could use plenty of legal terminology and simply lay out the steps for him or her. If your reader were a law student, you could probably use most legal terminology safely, but when you describe the steps, you'd need to use a bit more context for what would likely be an unfamiliar situation. And if your reader were a layperson - someone with no legal background - you would have to start with some background information, explaining why following the rules very strictly would be important. You would have to explain each step in detail, and you would have to define a number of legal terms. Even in situations where the differences in knowledge levels of your potential audience aren't so varied, you should consider who will be reading your essay so that you'll know the right amount of space to devote to filling in background, explaining concepts and defining terms without confusing your reader or wasting too much space. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP What Do You Want Your Reader to Take Away? As you write an essay - or any piece of writing - you'll need to think about what you want your reader to take away from what you write. And there are really two layers to this point. First, of course, is that you want to fulfill your basic purpose. You might want to inform your reader about how the electoral college works, for example. Or maybe you need to let your supervisor at work know about what parts of a project have been completed. Or, borrowing our idea from before, perhaps you are trying to persuade your school's faculty and administration that students bringing cell phones to class is a fantastic idea. To inform, to persuade or to entertain - those are examples of primary objectives, or purposes, and to meet those objectives, you'll need to think carefully about who your readers are and what their positions are, what your readers' perspectives might be and what level of knowledge your readers have about your subject matter. But there's an important secondary objective that underlies much of what you will write, which is just as important as your primary objective. That secondary objective has to do with achieving what you want your reader to think about you based on your writing. We all want our readers to come away from reading what we've written with a positive impression of us. If you've written a research memo for your boss, you want her to be informed by it and to form the opinion that you're a wonderful, valuable employee. If you've written an informative or persuasive essay for your teacher, you want him to be struck by how talented and meticulous a writer you are and by how much you know. So how do you accomplish the secondary objective of making your reader think well of you based on what you've written? You'll have to pay particular attention to using all of the writing skills in your arsenal. Those skills would include effective organization, the use of details to support your main points and thorough editing. Remember that in addition to informing, persuading or entertaining your reader, you may also have the added task of demonstrating all that you know about your subject and that you're a good writer (when writing an essay for a teacher). Or you might be trying to show how organized and creative you are (if your audience is your boss) and you've written a problem-solving proposal for her. Lesson Summary When you're working to write effectively for a particular audience, keep in mind the following four points: What is the reader's position with respect to you? What is the reader's perspective? What level of knowledge does the reader have about your topic? What do you want your reader to take away from what you write? Remember also that you'll have a primary objective when you're writing for a particular audience. That primary objective might be to inform, to persuade or to entertain. There's a secondary objective at work, too, and that's achieving what you want your reader to think about you based on your writing. Consider the characteristics and needs of your particular readers as you work to create the right impression for those readers. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the English 104: College Composition page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Step-by-Step Guide to Writing Compare and Contrast Essays Step-by-Step Guide to Writing a Great Reading Response Paper Why Writing Skills Are More Important Than Ever Tips for Writing an Effective Cover Letter How To Avoid Common Writing Mistakes Make Your Writing Shine: Tips for Perfect Usage Common Writing Errors: Write Right Learn Writing in the Blogosphere: Top 10 Writing Blogs Break that Block: Five Fun Writing Prompts National Day on Writing Webcast Today Executive Producer: Job Description, Duties and Requirements How to Become a Child Care Director: Step-by-Step Career Guide Online Registered Nursing Degree Programs and Courses Online Training Programs in Ministry Studies Digital Art College Bachelors Degree in Economic Crime Investigation Program Info Master of Science (MS): Management of Technology Degree Overview Masters in ABA Therapy Info on Applied Behavioral Analysis Programs × Course Navigator  Back To Course English 104: College Composition 8 chapters | 79 lessons 1 - Conventions in Writing: Grammar Go to Conventions in Writing: Grammar 2 - Conventions in Writing: Usage Go to Conventions in Writing: Usage 3 - How to Revise an Essay Go to How to Revise an Essay 4 - Using Source Materials Go to Using Source Materials 5 - Parts of an Essay Go to Parts of an Essay 6 - Essay Writing How to Write a Strong Personal Essay 6:33 How to Write a Persuasive Essay and Use Several Sources 9:22 How to Write a Great Essay Quickly 8:08 Practicing Essay Writing to Get Better at Writing 7:24 Writing for Your Audience 8:43 9:40 Next Lesson How to Edit and Improve Essay Content How to Proofread an Essay for Spelling and Grammar 6:03 What are Logical Fallacies? - Define, Identify and Avoid Them 8:41 Audience Opposition: Anticipating and Refuting Opposing Views in Your Essays 7:40 How to Focus Your Essay and Respond to the Essay Prompt 7:54 Go to Essay Writing 7 - Reading and Understanding Essays Go to Reading and Understanding Essays 8 - Composition Best Practices: Theory and Application Go to Composition Best Practices: Theory and Application Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
