#ThisURL#
https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/QVR8M6T
#SubURL#
https://www.surveymonkey.com/survey-thanks/?sm=FYTQ27UCFkKLAhhkHPq0tlA8sFPrim30jNoJSEI9ormFkbkFk6hRUXSMJRtFubQrfk_2FvyRrJJ3kngMioOKtEF2EKly5ynzqTcmnUcUvWyBL1mgUnDwl4QzRiM7MPY3GYng9Fl_2BvNCvjjrPuKIDZNeZaaF7eXk_2BIrzDTDS5so8c_2B1K6SJC9fXObUjyt6aC5x0
#Title#
Online Customer Satisfaction Survey FY 2015-16
#Content#
Exit this survey >> Online Customer Satisfaction Survey FY 2015-16 * 1. Select the program you wish to evaluate from the drop down menu. Disease Control and Prevention Environmental Health Public Health Preparedness School Health Dental Vital Statistics (Birth and  Death Certificates) Clinical Services (Medical/Primary Care. Immunization, Family Planning, Women's Health, STD, Lab) WIC HIV Case Management Healthy Start Other (please specify) * 2. Overall, how would you rate your satisfaction with the information or services you received? Very Satisfied Satisfied Neither Satisfied nor Dissatisfied Dissatisfied Very Dissatisfied * 3. Please rate the following:   Strongly Agree Agree Neither Agree nor Disagree Disagree Strongly Disagree I got the information or service that I needed. (Accessibility) I got the information or service that I needed. (Accessibility) Strongly Agree I got the information or service that I needed. (Accessibility) Agree I got the information or service that I needed. (Accessibility) Neither Agree nor Disagree I got the information or service that I needed. (Accessibility) Disagree I got the information or service that I needed. (Accessibility) Strongly Disagree The service or information was clear and understandable. (Clarity) The service or information was clear and understandable. (Clarity) Strongly Agree The service or information was clear and understandable. (Clarity) Agree The service or information was clear and understandable. (Clarity) Neither Agree nor Disagree The service or information was clear and understandable. (Clarity) Disagree The service or information was clear and understandable. (Clarity) Strongly Disagree The staff was friendly and polite. (Courtesy) The staff was friendly and polite. (Courtesy) Strongly Agree The staff was friendly and polite. (Courtesy) Agree The staff was friendly and polite. (Courtesy) Neither Agree nor Disagree The staff was friendly and polite. (Courtesy) Disagree The staff was friendly and polite. (Courtesy) Strongly Disagree The staff was well informed. (Knowledge) The staff was well informed. (Knowledge) Strongly Agree The staff was well informed. (Knowledge) Agree The staff was well informed. (Knowledge) Neither Agree nor Disagree The staff was well informed. (Knowledge) Disagree The staff was well informed. (Knowledge) Strongly Disagree The staff was helpful. (Helpfulness) The staff was helpful. (Helpfulness) Strongly Agree The staff was helpful. (Helpfulness) Agree The staff was helpful. (Helpfulness) Neither Agree nor Disagree The staff was helpful. (Helpfulness) Disagree The staff was helpful. (Helpfulness) Strongly Disagree I was served in a timely manner. (Timeliness) I was served in a timely manner. (Timeliness) Strongly Agree I was served in a timely manner. (Timeliness) Agree I was served in a timely manner. (Timeliness) Neither Agree nor Disagree I was served in a timely manner. (Timeliness) Disagree I was served in a timely manner. (Timeliness) Strongly Disagree * 4. Additional comments: Thank you for taking the time to complete this survey! Done >> T Javascript is required for this site to function, please enable.
