#ThisURL#
http://www.britannica.com/topic-browse/Health-and-Medicine
#SubURL#
http://www.britannica.com/science/rabies
http://www.britannica.com/science/thyroid-gland
http://www.britannica.com/science/amyotrophic-lateral-sclerosis
http://www.britannica.com/science/malaria
http://www.britannica.com/topic-browse/Health-and-Medicine/Physiology
http://www.britannica.com/science/narcissism
http://www.britannica.com/science/smallpox
http://www.britannica.com/science/attention-deficit-hyperactivity-disorder
http://www.britannica.com/topic-browse/Health-and-Medicine#
http://www.britannica.com/science/cerebral-palsy
http://info.eb.com
http://corporate.britannica.com/termsofuse.html
http://corporate.britannica.com/privacy.html
https://safe1.britannica.com/registrations2/signup.do?partnerCode=EBOPOTHERSUB_LP_MDL_A
http://corporate.britannica.com/publishing-partner-program
http://corporate.britannica.com/contact/consumer/
http://corporate.britannica.com
#Title#
Health and Medicine | Britannica.com
#Content#
School and Library Subscribers JOIN LOGIN Activate Your Free Trial! stories quizzes galleries lists Home / Health and Medicine Health and Medicine In human beings, the extent of an individual’s continuing physical, emotional, mental, and social ability to cope with his environment. This definition, just one of many that are... Browse Subcategories: Anatomy (800) Behaviour (800) Diseases and Disorders (800) Genetics and Evolution (325) Health (128) Medicine (800) Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine (199) Physiology (663) Displaying 1 - 20 of 800 results abortion the expulsion of a fetus from the uterus before it has reached the stage of viability (in human beings, usually about the 20th week of gestation). An abortion may occur spontaneously, in which case it is also called a miscarriage, or it may be brought... achondroplasia genetic disorder characterized by an abnormality in the conversion of cartilage into bone. As a consequence, bones that depend on cartilage models for development, particularly long bones such as the femur and humerus, cannot grow. Achondroplasia is... acupressure Alternative-medicine practice in which pressure is applied to points on the body aligned along 12 main meridians (pathways), usually for a short time, to improve the flow of vital force (qi). Though often referred to by its Japanese name, shiatsu, it... acupuncture ancient Chinese medical technique for relieving pain, curing disease, and improving general health. It was devised before 2500 bce in China and by the late 20th century was used in many other areas of the world. Acupuncture consists of the insertion... Adams, Robert clinician noted for his contributions to the knowledge of heart disease and gout. In 1827 he described a condition characterized by a very slow pulse and by transient giddiness or convulsive seizures, now known as the Stokes-Adams disease or syndrome.... Addison, Thomas English physician after whom Addison’s disease, a metabolic dysfunction caused by atrophy of the adrenal cortex, and Addison’s (pernicious) anemia were named. He was the first to correlate a set of disease symptoms with pathological changes in one of... adolescence transitional phase of growth and development between childhood and adulthood. The World Health Organization (WHO) defines an adolescent as any person between ages 10 and 19. This age range falls within WHO’s definition of young people, which refers to... adulthood the period in the human lifespan in which full physical and intellectual maturity have been attained. Adulthood is commonly thought of as beginning at age 20 or 21 years. Middle age, commencing at about 40 years, is followed by old age at about 60 years.... aerospace medicine specialized branch of medical science concerned with those medical problems encountered in human flight in the atmosphere (aviation medicine) and beyond the atmosphere (space medicine). The ultimate aim of this specialty is to promote the safety and... affective disorder mental disorder characterized by dramatic changes or extremes of mood. Affective disorders may include manic (elevated, expansive, or irritable mood with hyperactivity, pressured speech, and inflated self-esteem) or depressive (dejected mood with disinterest... Agramonte y Simoni, Aristides physician, pathologist, and bacteriologist, a member of the Reed Yellow Fever Board of the U.S. Army that discovered (1901) the role of the mosquito in the transmission of yellow fever. Agramonte was the son of a prominent physician who had been killed... Agricola, Georgius German scholar and scientist known as “the father of mineralogy.” While a highly educated classicist and humanist, well regarded by scholars of his own and later times, he was yet singularly independent of the theories of ancient authorities. He was... AIDS transmissible disease of the immune system caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). HIV is a lentivirus (literally meaning “slow virus”; a member of the retrovirus family) that slowly attacks and destroys the immune system, the body’s defense... albinism (from the Latin albus, meaning “white”), hereditary condition characterized by the absence of pigment in the eyes, skin, hair, scales, or feathers. Albino animals rarely survive in the wild because they lack the pigments that normally provide protective... Aldrovandi, Ulisse Renaissance naturalist and physician noted for his systematic and accurate observations of animals, plants, and minerals. After studying mathematics, Latin, law, and philosophy, Aldrovandi went to Padua in about 1545 to continue his studies. There he... Allbutt, Sir Thomas Clifford English physician, the inventor of the short clinical thermometer. His investigations also led to the improved treatment of arterial diseases. During a 28-year practice in Leeds, Allbutt made valuable clinical studies, primarily of arterial and nervous... allergy hypersensitivity reaction by the body to foreign substances (antigens) that in similar amounts and circumstances are harmless within the bodies of other people. Antigens that provoke an allergic reaction are called allergens. Typical allergens include... Alpini, Prospero physician and botanist who is credited with the introduction to Europe of coffee and bananas. While a medical adviser to Giorgio Emo, the Venetian consul in Cairo (1580–83), Alpini made an extensive study of Egyptian and Mediterranean flora. He is reputed... Alzheimer disease degenerative brain disorder that develops in mid-to-late adulthood. It results in a progressive and irreversible decline in memory and a deterioration of various other cognitive abilities. The disease is characterized by the destruction of nerve cells... amniocentesis the surgical insertion of a hollow needle through the abdominal wall and into the uterus of a pregnant female and the aspiration of fluid from the amniotic sac for analysis. Examination of the amniotic fluid itself as well as the fetal cells found in... 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Next Page Featured in Health and Medicine amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) asphyxia Barack Obama Asperger syndrome Marfan syndrome bipolar disorder schizophrenia Down syndrome LASIK Lyme disease gout psychology autism narcissism AIDS body mass index (BMI) dengue smallpox malaria syphilis pneumonia IQ obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) bubonic plague herpes simplex Sigmund Freud cancer cerebral palsy psoriasis scabies lymphoma Alzheimer disease Huntington disease vitiligo hypertension hernia rabies Paul Ehrlich tetanus Tourette syndrome fibromyalgia typhoid fever leprosy celiac disease photosynthesis human evolution heart attack magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) lobotomy (ADHD) Timothy Leary stroke sexually transmitted disease (STD) testosterone hypothyroidism thyroid gland obesity herpes zoster zoophilia rheumatoid arthritis About Us About Our Ads Partner Program Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use ©2016 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Or click Continue to submit anonymously: Continue
