#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Make_Your_Big_University_Feel_Like_a_Small_College.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/articles/The_Most_Expensive_College_Textbooks_and_Why_You_Should_Skip_Them.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://study.com/articles/should_i_major_in_electrical_engineering_-_quiz_self-assessment_test.html
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/pages/About_Us.html#editors
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
How to Make Your Big University Feel Like a Small College
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Education Insider News Blog  /  How to Make Your Big University Feel... How to Make Your Big University Feel Like a Small College Many college students are wary of attending a large university because they fear an impersonal campus experience. But those who go to big schools needn't be resigned to an anonymous college environment. Learn ten tips students can use to create a sense of community and belonging on any campus, including the largest universities. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools By Douglas Fehlen 1. Try out a new student group. Being part of groups that incorporate your interests can help you connect with like-minded peers and reduce feelings of anonymity at a large school. Also think about joining student organizations you maybe haven't considered before. Try out a group that piques your curiosity or seems offbeat. You'll get a fuller view of what your school has to offer and meet people you may not have crossed paths with otherwise. Remember that attending a meeting or two doesn't mean you have to make a commitment. 2. Get out on the weekends. As a college student, relaxing on the couch or using your two free days to catch up on homework can be tempting. These activities certainly have their place, but try to also spend time on the weekends hanging out at campus gathering areas and off-campus hot spots. Meeting new people is usually easier on the weekend because students aren't inhibited by weekday stresses. Large universities often resemble small cities, and they feature a bustling student life that's all their own. Being part of the pulse of campus life is a way to feel more at home at your school. 3. Attend campus events. Campus events feature excellent opportunities to meet people at school. It's often easier to connect with others in relaxed environments such as sporting events, campus rallies and other special occasions. Many colleges have annual traditions that offer the chance to celebrate school pride and bond with peers. Professors and other staff members often attend campus events, giving you the opportunity to get to know instructors outside of the academic setting. 4. Join a study group. Joining a study group is an effective way to get in some socializing time while staying on top of your academic responsibilities. Studying with peers in your current classes can help you form a community you may be able to keep intact in the future. If students in your courses can't seem to coordinate schedules, try posting an advertisement around campus or online. To keep things lively, your study group may want to switch up meeting places - including meeting at off-campus venues. 5. Get to know your RA. If you live in dorm, get to know your resident adviser. An RA will typically have informed perspectives on all aspects of life on campus. She or he might also offer opportunities for you to get involved in residence hall events. This kind of active participation can help you get to know others in your dorm and instill you with a greater sense of community. If it's allowed, you might join your RA for a residence life meeting with other resident advisers. That way you're likely to become more informed about campus issues and events. 6. Find favorite campus hangouts. The size of your university may be daunting, but the campus can begin to seem smaller after you're able to do some exploring. Go on a self-guided tour, taking your time to get a good idea of what the campus has to offer. As you gain a sense of the campus as a whole, also try to identify the places where you feel most comfortable. Find cozy cafés, cool bookstores, hip record shops and other locales where you're likely to run into other students who share your interests. 7. Connect with professors. Professors appreciate students who take their classes seriously, and they typically relish the opportunity to talk about course topics. Take a few minutes before or after a session to tell a professor what you enjoy about class. Stop by during office hours to talk about readings. Connecting with instructors can make you feel more plugged in to student life at a large institution. It can feel pretty good to walk through a department building and bump into instructors you get on well with. 8. Get a campus job. Working on campus can give you a different perspective on student life. You'll have the chance to meet other student workers and get a sense of how various parts of the campus interact. A school job can help you stay informed about campus issues and activities. It may also provide unexpected opportunities to get involved in unique ways around your school. If campus jobs are scarce or unavailable to you, consider volunteering in an office or department that interests you. 9. Hang out in common areas. Sipping a coffee in your school's student union or relaxing on the grassy lawn of the commons gives you a chance to casually observe campus happenings. Spending time in popular common areas allows you to take in the diversity of student life while meeting new people. Student events and activities are regularly scheduled in these areas, so keep your eyes open for things of interest to you. Regularly hanging out in student common areas can make your school feel less like a huge faceless institution and more like a close community. 10. Stay informed. Staying current on school news is a good way to feel connected on campus. The school newspaper (and its accompanying website) is a solid source of information that can also provide insight into an institution's personality. Campus organization websites, student blogs and other online resources can also help you grasp different perspectives. Additionally, campus radio and television stations are good places to get information on your school and student attitudes. Accessing these hyper-local media can help you to feel a sense of belonging on campus. Just making the move to college? Find ten survival tips for living on campus. Show me 10 popular schools Related to How to Make Your Big University Feel Like a Small College RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Make Your College Application Stand Out Video How to Make the Most of Campus Visits Video Accredited College University University and College Courses Online Degree Accredited College University Information College University Requirements in Photography Industry Community College Degree Online Environment Monitoring Technician: Job Description and Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an environment monitoring technician. Get a quick view of the... Further Proof That a College Education Isn't a Waste Skeptics who look at facts and figures on rising tuition and astronomical student loan debt might conclude that a college... Essential Tips for Maintaining Good Grades in College It may be difficult to earn good grades for one semester, but it's even harder to maintain them. However, with deliberate... Don't Let Money Prevent You From Going to Your First Choice College You got into your first choice college, but the high price tag is tough to swallow. How will you come up with the amount of... After You Transfer, How Important Are Your College Grades? Community College Early Childhood Education Degree Programs Online College Courses for High School Students How to Define Your Priorities and Make Your College Choice Easier College Advice for Career Changers Should You Choose Your College Classes Based on Expense? Should I Major in Electrical Engineering? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Online Food Science Degree Program Information Export Manager: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Online Bachelors Degree in Aviation: Program Overview How Applying for College Is Different Than Applying for a Job The Most Expensive College Textbooks and Why You Should Skip Them Bachelor's Degrees in Applied Behavioral Science: Program Options Online Ancient History Degree Program Information Communications Manager: Job Description, Duties and Requirement Top Degree Programs in Nursing and Nursing Administration - Albuquerque NM Beauty Schools in NYC Top Computer Information Systems Management Degree - Irvine CA Operations Management Top School Offering Courses and Training in Operations Management - San Diego CA Barber Schools in Georgia Multimedia Degrees Top Rated School with Programs in Multimedia - San Francisco CA Computer Science Top University Offering a Computer Science Major - Denver CO Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance Bachelor BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management Bachelor BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Master M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Non-Degree Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctorate in Business Administration Master MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management Bachelor BS in Psychology BS in Criminal Justice BBA (Accelerated Program) BS in Computer Science BS in Mobile Application Software Engineering BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Associate Associate of Business Administration AAS in Computer Programming Associate of Business in Accounting AAS Information Technology (IT Support Specialist) Non-Degree Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Project Management and Planning Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 6Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations Bachelor BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 7Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management Bachelor BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies Associate AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Non-Degree Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 8Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 9University of Delaware School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity Get Started with University of Delaware What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management Bachelor BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 Baker College Online Doctorate in Business Administration MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management BS in Psychology BS in Criminal Justice BBA (Accelerated Program) BS in Computer Science BS in Mobile Application Software Engineering BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Associate of Business Administration AAS in Computer Programming Associate of Business in Accounting AAS Information Technology (IT Support Specialist) Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Project Management and Planning When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 7 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Penn Foster High School Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry View more What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 9 University of Delaware M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
