#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/estimating-a-difference-by-rounding.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/estimating-a-difference-by-rounding.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/6th-8th-grade-math-whole-numbers.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/6th-8th-grade-math-introduction-to-fractions.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/6th-8th-grade-math-the-coordinate-graph.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/6th-8th-grade-math-basic-arithmetic-operations.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-an-equivalent-fraction-definition-examples.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/estimating-a-difference-by-rounding.html&width=100&
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Estimating a Difference by Rounding - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: Estimating a Difference by Rounding After studying this lesson, you will understand rounding basics. You'll also learn how to quickly solve subtraction problems by using your rounding skills.  6th-8th Grade Math: Practice & Review  /  Math Courses Course Navigator How to Use Front-End EstimationNext Lesson  Estimating a Difference by Rounding Chapter 6 /  Lesson 2   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Using Rounding to Estimate a Difference Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: How to Use Front-End Estimation 0:01 Rounding Numbers Can… 2:04 Example 1 3:28 Example 2 4:18 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 1,366 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses What are Whole Numbers? - Definition & Examples How to Explain the Main Point through Supporting Details Force: Definition and Types Rounding Numbers to the Nearest 1000, 10,000 & 100,000 What are Equivalent Fractions? - Definition & Examples Newton's Laws and Weight, Mass & Gravity How to Find the Greatest Common Factor What is Area in Math? - Definition & Formula What is a Decimal Place Value? How to Round Decimals Point of View: First, Second & Third Person Singular & Plural Nouns: Definitions, Rules & Examples The Water Cycle: Precipitation, Condensation, and Evaporation What is a Polygon? - Definition, Shapes & Angles What is a Scale Factor? - Definition, Formula & Examples Finding Factors of Whole Numbers Alternation of Generations: The Gametophyte and Sporophyte Subordinate Clause: Examples & Definition Physical Property of Matter: Definition & Examples What is Humidity? - Definition, Measurements & Effects GRE Prep: Help and Review PSAT Prep: Tutoring Solution McDougal Littell Pre-Algebra: Online Textbook Help GRE Test: Practice & Study Guide Holt McDougal Algebra 2: Online Textbook Help GED Math: Tutoring Solution TExES Mathematics 7-12: Practice and Study Guide Smarter Balanced Assessments - Math Grade 6: Test Prep & Practice ACT Math Prep: Review & Practice GRE Prep: Tutoring Solution McDougal Littell Algebra 1: Online Textbook Help Glencoe Algebra 1: Online Textbook Help CLEP College Mathematics: Study Guide & Test Prep NES Mathematics: Test Practice & Study Guide TASC Mathematics: Prep and Practice GACE Mathematics: Practice & Study Guide Common Core Math Grade 7 - Statistics & Probability: Standards Common Core Math Grade 8 - Statistics & Probability: Standards TExES Physics/Mathematics 7-12: Practice & Study Guide Common Core Math Grade 6 - The Number System: Standards Lesson Transcript Instructor: Yuanxin (Amy) Yang Alcocer Amy has a master's degree in secondary education and has taught Math at a public charter high school. After studying this lesson, you will understand rounding basics. You'll also learn how to quickly solve subtraction problems by using your rounding skills. Rounding Numbers Can Be Helpful In math and in real life, you will come across many problems where you need to find the difference. For instance, when you go shopping and you use a coupon for $10 off your purchase of $50 or more, in order to find out your total amount due, you need to find the difference. You need to subtract the $10 from the amount that you are purchasing. So difference problems are really just subtraction problems. Many times, you do want to be exact and use the numbers you are given to find an exact answer, but sometimes, rounding, replacing a number with an approximate simpler number, can give you a general idea of what kind of exact answer to get, a so-called rough estimate. This helps you a lot when you are out shopping. If you can round your numbers and quickly get an estimate of your exact answer, you won't be surprised at the register when the final purchase price is given to you. You will already know that it will be close to your estimated - your rounded - answer. Do you remember how to round? You pick how much you want to round to. You can pick tens, hundreds, thousands, and so on. Or you can pick to a certain decimal point, like two decimal points, three decimal points and so on. Either way, once you have chosen how much to round to, you will then look at the number directly to the right of the digit you chose to round to. If it is 5 or higher, then you round your digit up, and if it is less than 5, then you round down by keeping the digit you are rounding and bringing all the numbers to the right of that digit to 0. For example, rounding the number 16 to the tens place gives you 20. You round up because the number directly to the right of the digit that you are rounding - the 6, which is directly to the right of the 1 in the tens place - is 5 or greater. The 1 in the tens place changes to a 2. If our number is 13, then we round down by keeping our tens digit, the 1, and bringing the 3 down to get 0. We get 10. Let's look at a couple of examples. Example 1 You are shopping at the store where you have the $10 off coupon for purchases of $50 or more. Right now, all the things you have in your cart add up to $87.24. Use rounding to help you estimate what kind of a total to expect at the register. This problem is a difference or subtraction problem. It wants you to subtract the $10 from your current total. So we are essentially performing the subtraction $87.24 - $10. The problem wants us to round. But how much do we round to? Well, since the problem didn't specify how much to round to, it is up to us. Since we have a $10 coupon and our current total has a tens digit, we will round to the tens place. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP The $10 is already rounded to the tens for us. The $87.24 needs to be rounded. We follow our rules and look at the digit directly to the right of the digit we are rounding to, the 7. Is this digit 5 or greater? Yes, so we round up. We get $90. Our subtraction problem now becomes $90 - $10. Isn't this a very simple problem you can easily and quickly do in your head? This is the beauty of rounding. Our rounded answer is $80. We can expect to pay around $80 at the cash register. Example 2 Estimate 456 - 240. Round to the hundreds. In this problem, it actually tells us how much to round. That makes our job easier. Rounding 456 to the hundreds gives us 500, since our digit to the right of the hundreds place is a 5 (5 or greater). Rounding 240 to the hundreds gives us 200, since our digit to the right of the hundreds place is a 4 (less than 5). Now all we have to do is to subtract our rounded numbers, 500 - 200. Can you do this easily? That's right, it equals 300. Our rounded answer is 300. We can expect our exact answer to be around 300. Lesson Summary Now, let's review what we've learned. We learned that rounding, replacing a number with an approximate simpler number, can be a quick and easy way to get an estimate of your subtraction problem. It lets you know what number your exact answer should be around. To round, we use the 5 or greater than 5 rule. If the digit to the right of the digit we are rounding to is 5 or greater, then we round up. But if the digit is less than 5, then we round down by keeping the digit we are rounding and bringing all the digits to the right of that digit to 0. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the 6th-8th Grade Math: Practice & Review page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular How Do I Use Study.com's Assign Lesson Feature? Job Resumes 2.0: Creating a Video Resume Students: Use Video Games to Stay in Shape YouCollege: Video Becomes the Next Big Thing in College Applications Job Description of a Video Blogger: Duties and Requirements Free Video Lecture Podcasts From Top Universities Best Non-Video Free Courses: Study.com's People's Choice Award Winner Best Free Online Video Lectures: Study.com's People's Choice Award Winner Biology Lesson Plans: Physiology, Mitosis, Metric System Video Lessons OCW People's Choice Award Winner: Best Video Lectures Learning Tips for Visual Learners in Distance Education Programs Online Electrical Maintenance Degree Program Information What Skills Are Needed to Be a Doctor? Certified Internal Auditor Training and Degree Program Info Dispatcher Certification Doctorate in Veterinary Medicine Degree Program Overview Electricity Engineering Degree Bachelors Degree in Child Studies Program Overview × Course Navigator  Back To Course 6th-8th Grade Math: Practice & Review 55 chapters | 459 lessons 1 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Basic Arithmetic Operations Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Basic Arithmetic Operations 2 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Divisibility Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Divisibility 3 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Properties of Numbers Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Properties of Numbers 4 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Number Theory Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Number Theory 5 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Factoring Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Factoring 6 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Estimating & Rounding Rounding Numbers to the Nearest 1000, 10,000 & 100,000 7:04 Estimating a Difference by Rounding 4:57 5:26 Next Lesson How to Use Front-End Estimation Rounding Decimals & Finding the Missing Digit 6:50 Estimating the Sum & Difference Between Two Decimals 5:12 How to Round Mixed Numbers 3:20 Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Estimating & Rounding 7 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Whole Numbers Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Whole Numbers 8 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Simplifying Whole Number Expressions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Simplifying Whole Number Expressions 9 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Negative Numbers Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Negative Numbers 10 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Absolute Value Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Absolute Value 11 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Integers Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Integers 12 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Rational Numbers Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Rational Numbers 13 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Inequalities Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Inequalities 14 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Introduction to Decimals Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Introduction to Decimals 15 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Operations with Decimals Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Operations with Decimals 16 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Introduction to Fractions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Introduction to Fractions 17 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Operations with Fractions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Operations with Fractions 18 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Percents Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Percents 19 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Exponents & Exponential Expressions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Exponents & Exponential Expressions 20 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Roots & Radical Expressions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Roots & Radical Expressions 21 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Writing Algebraic Expressions Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Writing Algebraic Expressions 22 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Basic Algebraic Expressions Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Basic Algebraic Expressions 23 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Algebraic Distribution Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Algebraic Distribution 24 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Writing & Solving One-Step... Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Writing & Solving One-Step Equations 25 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Writing & Solving Two-Step... Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Writing & Solving Two-Step Equations 26 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Simplifying & Solving... Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Simplifying & Solving Rational Expressions 27 - 6th-8th Grade Math: The Coordinate Graph Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: The Coordinate Graph 28 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Linear Equations Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Linear Equations 29 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Systems of Linear Equations Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Systems of Linear Equations 30 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Properties of Functions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Properties of Functions 31 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Graphing Functions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Graphing Functions 32 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Solving Math Word Problems Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Solving Math Word Problems 33 - 6th-8th Grade Measurement: Perimeter & Area Go to 6th-8th Grade Measurement: Perimeter & Area 34 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Introduction to Geometric... Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Introduction to Geometric Figures 35 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Angles Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Angles 36 - 6th-8th Grade Measurement: Units of Measurement Go to 6th-8th Grade Measurement: Units of Measurement 37 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Triangles Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Triangles 38 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Quadrilaterals Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Quadrilaterals 39 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Circles Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Circles 40 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Circular Arcs & Measurement Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Circular Arcs & Measurement 41 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Polyhedrons & Geometric Solids Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Polyhedrons & Geometric Solids 42 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Symmetry, Similarity &... Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Symmetry, Similarity & Congruence 43 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Transformations Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Transformations 44 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Triangle Theorems & Proofs Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Triangle Theorems & Proofs 45 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Similar Polygons Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: Similar Polygons 46 - 6th-8th Grade Geometry: The Pythagorean Theorem Go to 6th-8th Grade Geometry: The Pythagorean Theorem 47 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Data & Graphs Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Data & Graphs 48 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Probability Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Probability 49 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Statistics Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Statistics 50 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Rates, Ratios & Proportions Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Rates, Ratios & Proportions 51 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Money Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Money 52 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Consumer Math Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Consumer Math 53 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Number Sequences Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Number Sequences 54 - 6th-8th Grade Math: Sets Go to 6th-8th Grade Math: Sets 55 - 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Monomials & Polynomials Go to 6th-8th Grade Algebra: Monomials & Polynomials Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
