#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/geothermal-and-tidal-energy-advantages-and-disadvantages.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_an_Energy_Therapist_Education_and_Career_Roadmap.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/geological-science.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/nonrenewable-resources.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-solar-energy-definition-lesson-quiz.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/foreign-language.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/geothermal-and-tidal-energy-advantages-and-disadvantages.html&width=100&
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Geothermal Energy: Advantages and Disadvantages - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: Geothermal Energy: Advantages and Disadvantages Geothermal energy is heat energy that is stored within the earth. Learn the methods being used to tap into this thermal energy to heat buildings and generate electricity as well as the advantages and disadvantages of this renewable energy source.  Environmental Science 101: Environment and Humanity  /  Science Courses Course Navigator Tidal Energy: Advantages and DisadvantagesNext Lesson  Geothermal Energy: Advantages and Disadvantages Chapter 14 /  Lesson 7   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Pros and Cons of Geothermal Energy Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: Tidal Energy: Advantages and Disadvantages 0:05 Geothermal Energy 1:59 Geothermal Heat Pumps 2:45 Geothermal Power Plants 4:54 Geothermal Energy Advantages 5:52 Geothermal Energy… 7:08 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 86,260 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses What Are Fossil Fuels? - Definition, Advantages & Disadvantages Tidal Energy: Advantages and Disadvantages Renewable & Non-Renewable Resources: Definition & Differences Hydroelectric Energy: Definition, Uses, Advantages & Disadvantages What is Thermal Energy? - Definition & Examples Energy Transformation: Definition, Types & Examples Types of Volcanoes: Shield, Cinder Cones & Composite Cones What is Nuclear Energy? - Definition & Examples Plate Boundaries: Convergent, Divergent, and Transform Boundaries Poetic Devices: Definition, Types & Examples Abiotic Factors of an Ecosystem: Definition & Examples The Four Spheres of Earth: Geosphere, Hydrosphere, Biosphere, and Atmosphere What is a Preposition? - Definition, Uses & Examples What is Chemical Weathering? - Definition, Process & Examples What Are Natural Resources? - Definition & Types What is Mechanical Energy? - Definition & Examples What is Electrical Energy? - Definition & Examples Symbiotic Relationships: Mutualism, Commensalism & Parasitism Transverse & Longitudinal Waves: Definition & Examples What is Chemical Energy? - Definition & Examples Health 102: Substance Abuse Holt McDougal Biology: Online Textbook Help Analytical Chemistry: Help & Review UExcel Anatomy & Physiology: Study Guide & Test Prep Introduction to Biology: Certificate Program Human Anatomy & Physiology: Help and Review College Biology: Help and Review AP Physics 1: Exam Prep Astronomy 101: Intro to Astronomy GED Science: Life, Physical and Chemical College Chemistry: Help and Review Physics: High School AP Physics 2: Exam Prep ACT Prep: Help and Review Earth Science 102: Weather and Climate Holt Physical Science: Online Textbook Help ACT Prep: Tutoring Solution High School Physical Science: Homework Help Resource High School Chemistry: Help and Review AP Biology: Exam Prep Lesson Transcript Instructor: Rebecca Gillaspy Dr. Gillaspy has taught health science at University of Phoenix and Ashford University and has a degree from Palmer College of Chiropractic. Geothermal energy is heat energy that is stored within the earth. Learn the methods being used to tap into this thermal energy to heat buildings and generate electricity as well as the advantages and disadvantages of this renewable energy source. Geothermal Energy From space, the earth's surface is seen as peaceful groupings of land and water, but inside the earth, it is turbulent and hot. Below the earth's crust, lie layers of molten rock called magma, and at the earth's core, temperatures can be as hot as 9,000 degrees Fahrenheit. In this lesson, you will learn how this natural heat can be pulled to the surface and used to heat buildings and produce electricity, as well as the pros and cons of this energy source. Geothermal energy is defined as heat from within the earth that can be used for heating or to generate electricity. This is an easy term to recall if you remember that the prefix 'geo' means 'earth' and the word 'thermal' means 'heat.' So, geothermal literally means 'earth's heat.' As we mentioned, there are extreme amounts of heat found at the core of the earth. In fact, this intense heat is enough to melt rocks, resulting in magma. Magma that reaches the earth's surface through cracks in the earth's crust is known as lava. However, magma does not always come to the surface of the earth. If it stays trapped within the layers of the earth, it can heat underground water. It can form natural pools of heated water, known as 'hot springs,' or gushing jets of hot water and steam that burst up from the earth's surface, known as 'geysers.' If the heated water within the earth does not reach the earth's surface, it remains as underground concentrations of hot water and steam, known as geothermal reservoirs. By tapping into geothermal reservoirs, we can efficiently heat our homes and businesses and even generate electricity. Let's take a look at how this is done. Geothermal Heat Pumps Geothermal heat pumps, also known as ground source heat pumps, are systems that use the stable temperature of the earth to heat and cool buildings. A few feet below the surface of the earth, the temperature stays at about 50 degrees Fahrenheit year-round. Geothermal heat pumps rely on this relatively constant temperature to both heat and cool buildings. Water and other fluids are circulated through a loop of buried pipes. In the winter, heat from the ground is pulled into the building and circulated through a duct system. In the summer, the process is reversed. The building's heat is picked up by the circulating fluids within the pipes and transferred into the earth, helping to cool the building. Geothermal Power Plants Geothermal heat pumps show how geothermal energy can be used for heating, but it can also be used to generate electricity. Geothermal power plants are facilities that convert the earth's natural heat into electricity. These plants drill wells into geothermal reservoirs to bring hot water and steam from deep within the earth to the surface. All geothermal power plants use steam to spin turbines attached to electricity generators. However, there are three different types of geothermal power plants. The one selected for an area will depend on the temperature and pressure of the available geothermal reservoir. A dry steam plant directly uses steam to spin a turbine. These systems use very little water, hence the name 'dry.' This is the oldest and least complex of the three designs, but because this is an open system, it can release hazardous substances, such as hydrogen sulfide, into the atmosphere. A flash steam plant moves high-pressure geothermal water into low-pressure tanks to produce a flash of steam to spin a turbine. After the steam is used, it is cooled and condensed back into water and injected back down to the reservoir. A binary cycle plant uses geothermal water to heat a secondary fluid that spins a turbine. You can recall this term by remembering that 'binary' refers to 'two components.' A binary cycle plant relies on the cycling of two fluids - the hot water and a secondary fluid. The advantage of a binary cycle plant is that lower temperature geothermal water can be used to generate electricity. With this system, moderately hot water is passed through a heat exchanger, where it heats a secondary liquid that has a lower boiling point than water. This fluid then flashes to vapor to spin the turbine. Geothermal Energy Advantages There are many advantages to geothermal energy. Geothermal energy is renewable energy because once water or steam is used, it can be pumped back into the ground. It is also clean energy. Geothermal power plants, unlike plants that burn fossil fuels, do not produce greenhouse gases that can be harmful to the atmosphere. Geothermal energy is easy on the local environment because the power plants do not require the clearing of large areas of land, damming of rivers or mining like other energy sources. It is inexpensive to use. Once a geothermal system is installed, the source of energy is free to use and because the plants use very few moving parts, there are generally low maintenance costs involved. It also reduces a country's dependence on imported oil, which can be unpredictable. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Geothermal Energy Disadvantages Even though there are many advantages, there are also some disadvantages to geothermal energy. There is an initial cost barrier that comes with researching appropriate areas, building the power plant and drilling into the earth. Also, because this energy source is not yet widespread, there's a lack of equipment and qualified staff that adds to the initial costs. Geothermal energy requires a suitable location. The location of a geothermal power plant must be in an area with sufficient geothermal activity at a depth that is shallow enough for easy drilling. Reservoirs can run out of steam. While the cause is not always known, this can result if temperatures drop or too much cooled water is injected back into the reservoir. Even though geothermal energy generation does not produce pollutants, there is the potential danger of hazardous substances being released. During the drilling process, gases and minerals can escape that can be hazardous to the environment. Also, geothermal energy is not easily transported and is, therefore, only suited for local energy and heat generation. Lesson Summary Let's review. Geothermal energy is heat from within the earth that can be used for heating or to generate electricity. We can tap into geothermal reservoirs, which are underground concentrations of hot water and steam for use in heating and electricity generation. Heating can be accomplished with the use of geothermal heat pumps, which are systems that use the stable temperature of the earth to heat and cool buildings. Electricity generation can be accomplished through geothermal power plants, which are facilities that convert the earth's natural heat into electricity. There are three different types of geothermal power plants. A dry steam plant directly uses steam to spin a turbine. A flash steam plant moves high-pressure geothermal water into low-pressure tanks to produce a flash of steam to spin a turbine. And a binary cycle plant uses geothermal water to heat a secondary fluid that spins a turbine. There are many advantages to geothermal energy. Geothermal energy is renewable energy. It is also clean energy because it does not generate greenhouse gases. Geothermal energy is easy on the local environment and because it uses free heat from the earth, it is inexpensive to use. It can also be used domestically, which reduces a country's dependence on imported oil. Disadvantages to geothermal energy include the initial cost barrier associated with building a plant and the fact that geothermal energy requires a suitable location with adequate geothermal activity. Reservoirs can run out of steam unexpectedly, and there is a potential danger of hazardous substances being released during drilling. Lastly, geothermal energy is not easily transported. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the Environmental Science 101: Environment and Humanity page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Turn Off the Juice: Schools Fight Back Against Wasteful Energy Consumption Tips for Saving Energy - and Money Be an Energy Auditor: Education and Career Requirements How to Become an Energy Therapist: Education and Career Roadmap Become an Energy Engineer: Education and Career Information Info on Becoming an Energy Attorney Energy Medicine Schools and Colleges: How to Choose Energy Therapist Career Information Associate Degree in Energy Healing Bachelor's Degree in Energy Medicine Online Civil Engineering Diploma and Certificate Programs General Pediatrician: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Associate of HVAC and Refrigeration: Degree Overview Be a Medical Assistant for a Dermatologist Job Duties and Requirements Home Remodeling Courses How to Become a Manufacturing Mechanic Education and Career Roadmap Human Development Articles Online BS in Chemical Engineering Degree Program Overviews × Course Navigator  Back To Course Environmental Science 101: Environment and Humanity 18 chapters | 177 lessons 1 - Introduction to Environmental Science Go to Introduction to Environmental Science 2 - Ecosystems Go to Ecosystems 3 - Interaction Among Organisms in the Ecosystem Go to Interaction Among Organisms in the Ecosystem 4 - Evolving Ecosystems Go to Evolving Ecosystems 5 - Atmospheric Science and the Environment Go to Atmospheric Science and the Environment 6 - Geological Science Go to Geological Science 7 - Biological Science Go to Biological Science 8 - Pollution of Freshwater Resources Go to Pollution of Freshwater Resources 9 - Land Resources Go to Land Resources 10 - Population and the Environment Go to Population and the Environment 11 - Food and Agricultural Resources Go to Food and Agricultural Resources 12 - Solid and Hazardous Waste Go to Solid and Hazardous Waste 13 - Human Impact on the Environment Go to Human Impact on the Environment 14 - Renewable Resources What is Solar Energy? - Definition, Pros & Cons 7:01 What Are Solar Panels? - Photovoltaic Solar Cells and Solar Thermal Electric Generation 6:22 Solar Energy: Understanding Active and Passive Solar Heating 7:31 Biomass for Renewable Energy: Pros and Cons 10:05 Wind Energy: Pros and Cons 7:53 Hydropower: Pros and Cons 7:39 Geothermal Energy: Advantages and Disadvantages 9:14 7:19 Next Lesson Tidal Energy: Advantages and Disadvantages Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency: Examples and Differences 5:41 Conserving Energy at Home: How to Be More Energy Efficient 7:37 Go to Renewable Resources 15 - Nonrenewable Resources Go to Nonrenewable Resources 16 - Environmental Sustainability Go to Environmental Sustainability 17 - Environmental Risk Analysis Go to Environmental Risk Analysis 18 - Ethical and Political Processes of the Environment Go to Ethical and Political Processes of the Environment Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
