#ThisURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Medical_and_Health_Professions/Alternative_Medicine/Hypnotherapy.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/PhD_in_Hypnosis_and_Hypnotherapy_Doctorate_Degree_Program_Info.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_an_Information_Technology_IT_Specialist.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_a_Hypnotist_Education_and_Career_Roadmap.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Medical_and_Health_Professions/Alternative_Medicine/Hypnotherapy.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Hypnotherapy
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Medical and Health Professions  /  Alternative Medicine  /  Hypnotherapy Medical and Health Professions Alternative Medicine Acupuncture and Acupressure Alternative and Complementary Medicine Herbalist Homeopathic Medicine Movement Therapies Naturopathic Medicine Polarity Therapy Traditional Eastern Medicine and Herbology Yoga Therapy and Instructor Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Subject Categories  /  Medical and Health Professions  /  Alternative Medicine  /  Hypnotherapy Hypnotherapy Hypnotherapists help people overcome challenges by manipulating the subconscious mind. When used as a supplement to conventional medicine, hypnotherapy treatments can help people lose weight, quit smoking or ease depression symptoms. Read on to find out more about the field of hypnotherapy. Inside Hypnotherapy Hypnotherapy involves using relaxation, concentration and focus techniques to help patients overcome problems, such as nicotine addiction, anxiety, obesity, phobias, depression, grief and sleep disorders. Because hypnotherapists make use of hypnotic techniques, they should possess adequate training in psychology and mental health. In a typical session, a hypnotherapist may use different techniques to access a client's subconscious through dream therapy, language patterns and handwriting analysis. These therapists may also use tools such as biofeedback machines, light and hypnodiscs. Education Information Certificate and Degree Programs Educational and training options in the field of hypnotherapy include alternative medicine degree programs, certificate programs and individual hypnotherapy courses. Most hypnotherapists possess at least a bachelor's degree in a related field, such as psychology or health sciences. Some graduate programs in psychology include courses in hypnotherapy. Check out the following Study.com articles for more information on relevant educational courses and degree programs: Hypnosis Classes Overview Hypnotherapy Certificate Program Information Bachelor's Degree in Alternative Medicine Master's Degree in Behavioral Psychology Ph.D. in Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Specialty Education Options Hypnosis is often part of medical and alternative medicine specialty programs, such as energy healing and guided imagery hypnosis. Here are some articles that provide additional details: Medical Hypnosis Programs Guided Imagery Hypnosis Career Information Energy Therapist License and Certification Information Hypnotherapy is typically performed by a licensed or certified mental health care professional. Credential requirements for practicing hypnotherapists vary greatly by state; however, individuals who wish to become certified by a credible professional organization, such as the American Society of Clinical Hypnosis (ASCH), should hold at least a master's degree in a healthcare-related discipline and state licensure or certification. Employment Information Most hypnotherapists are self-employed or independently contracted. They typically perform their work at their homes, in their clients' homes or in a hospital or clinic. Below are some articles designed to provide you with more information. Explore your options and find a career in the field of hypnotherapy that's right for you. Clinical Hypnotherapy Job Options How to Become a Hypnotist Job Information for Professional Hypnotists Professional Certification in Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy Read more Hypnotherapy Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Hypnotherapy Certification and Certificate Program Information Hypnotherapy certificate programs provide a comprehensive exposure to the theories and techniques behind this therapeutic method of... Clinical Hypnotherapy Job Options and Education Requirements Clinical hypnotherapy is generally offered to licensed health care and counseling professionals as a stand-alone certificate program.... PhD in Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy: Doctorate Degree Program Info While no accredited programs are available specifically in hypnosis or hypnotherapy in the U.S., some schools and organizations offer... Medical Hypnosis Programs: Degree, Certificate and Training Options How to Become a Hypnotherapist: Education and Career Roadmap Head Chef: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a head chef. Get a quick view of the job duties and training requirements to see... Online Speech Communications Degree Information Find out about online speech communication courses and in which degree programs they're most commonly offered. Get course descriptions,... Fremont, CA Career Guide: Hot Careers in Fremont, California Business Development Manager: Job Description and Requirements Online Masters Degree in Public Relations: Program Summaries How to Become an Information Technology (IT) Specialist Bronx, NY Career Guide: Top Growing Careers in Bronx, New York How to Become a Landscape Construction Project Manager Learn how to become a landscape construction project manager. Research the job description and the education and certification... Art Classes Austin Texas There are several schools within five miles of Austin, Texas, that have art classes. Read an overview of three schools' programs,... Paramedic Training Houston Online Medical Examiner Degrees and Schooling Options Become a Salon Manager Step-by-Step Career Guide How to Become a Multimedia Animator Education and Career Roadmap CNA Training in Salem Oregon Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Complementary and Alternative Health Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Healthcare Administration MSM in Healthcare MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety Bachelor BS Health Science BS Business Admin w/conc in Healthcare Administration BS Healthcare Administration Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology Master Master of Arts in Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration Master MBA: Health Systems Management MS in Health Care Administration Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management Bachelor BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science BS in Health Care Administration Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Health Services Administration Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 6Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor Bachelor of Science - Healthcare Management With a Dental Hygiene Emphasis Associate AS in Medical Assisting Non-Degree Diploma in Medical Assisting Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 8Independence University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Healthcare Administration (MS) Get Started with Independence University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School or GED Some College (0-23 credits) Some College (24-47 credits) Associate's Bachelor's Master's Doctorate's No High School Degree/GED 9Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 10Utica College School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Health Care Management MS in Healthcare Administration Get Started with Utica College What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Alternative Medicine Chiropractor Clinical Laboratory Science Professions Communication Disorders Sciences Dental Health and Fitness Massage and Related Therapeutic Professions Medical Administrative Services Medical and Health Preparatory Sciences Medical Assisting Medical Diagnostic and Treatment Professions Medical Ethics and Bioethics Medical Informatics and Illustration Medical Residency Programs Mental Health Services Nursing Professions Nutrition Services Optometric and Ophthalmic Services Osteopathic Medicine - DO Pharmaceutical Sciences and Administration Podiatry - DPM Public Health and Safety Therapeutic and Rehabilitation Professions Veterinary Medicine and Clinical Sciences Select your specialty subject area Acupuncture and Acupressure Alternative and Complementary Medicine Herbalist Homeopathic Medicine Hypnotherapy Movement Therapies Naturopathic Medicine Polarity Therapy Traditional Eastern Medicine and Herbology Yoga Therapy and Instructor What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University BA in Complementary and Alternative Health What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Healthcare Administration MSM in Healthcare MS in Nursing: Patient Quality and Safety BS Health Science BS Business Admin w/conc in Healthcare Administration BS Healthcare Administration View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 University of the Rockies Doctor of Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Health and Wellness Psychology What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration MBA: Health Systems Management MS in Health Care Administration Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science BS in Health Care Administration Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 Baker College Online BS in Health Services Administration When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Northcentral University Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7 Herzing University MBA Dual Concentration in Healthcare Management & Public Safety Leadership Bachelor of Science - Healthcare Management With a Dental Hygiene Emphasis AS in Medical Assisting Diploma in Medical Assisting What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Independence University Healthcare Administration (MS) What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School or GED Some College (0-23 credits) Some College (24-47 credits) Associate's Bachelor's Master's Doctorate's No High School Degree/GED 9 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 10 Utica College MBA in Health Care Management MS in Healthcare Administration What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Less Than 57 college credit More Than 57 college credit Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
