#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Organizational_Communication_Jobs_Options_and_Requirements.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/Pasadena%2C_CA_Employment_Outlook%3A_A_Summary_of_Pasadena%27s_Job_Market_and_Local_Economy.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
http://study.com/pages/Contractors.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Organizational Communication Jobs: Options and Requirements
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Communications and Journalism  /  Public Relations and Advertising  /  Organizational Communication Communications and Journalism Public Relations and Advertising Advertising Health Communication Political Communication Public Relations Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Glossary of Career Education Programs  /  Communications and Journalism  /  Organizational Communication Jobs:... Organizational Communication Jobs: Options and Requirements Organizational communication jobs can be found in a variety of fields. Find out about the educational requirements for a few career options, as well as job growth and salary info for organizational communication professionals. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information Students who major in organizational communication study the written and verbal skills needed by leaders and other workers to efficiently create and run organizations. They can subsequently work for profit and non-profit corporations, government agencies or for themselves. Learn more about these jobs here. A minimum of a bachelor's degree is required for some of the positions below, although some employers prefer master's degrees. Career Titles Human Resources Managers Arbitrators, Mediators & Conciliators Meeting, Convention & Event Planners Education Requirements Bachelor's or master's degree in human resources or business administration Bachelor's or master's degree in business administration Bachelor's degree in tourism management or hospitality Projected Job Growth (2012 - 2022)* 13% 10% 33% Median Annual Salary (May, 2013)* $100,800 $60,450 $46,260 Source: *United States Bureau of Labor Statistics Career Options Individuals who wish to work in the organizational communication field should enjoy planning, strategizing, mediating and working with people. A wide array of career options is available for students who major in this field. Some may include: Human resources managers Event planners Fundraisers Community relations directors Mediators Customer sales representatives and supervisors Labor relations representatives Public administrators Human Resources Managers Human resources managers serve as conduits between management and workers. They are responsible for recruiting and hiring employees and otherwise handling the administrative-level activities of a corporation. According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), employment rates for human resources managers were expected to increase by 13% between 2012 and 2022 (www.bls.gov). Median annual salaries were $100,800 as of May 2013. Mediators Mediators help to settle disputes between two or more parties. It's their job to arrange meetings between disputants and to help them reach agreeable conclusions. Employment rates for arbitrators, mediators and conciliators were expected to increase by 10% between 2012 and 2022. In May 2013, the median annual salaries for these professionals were $60,450. Event Planners Event planners help their clients by arranging the details of their professional meetings and events. This includes choosing venues as well as food service providers, transportation and rooms. Jobs for meeting, convention and event planners were expected to expand at a rate of 33% between 2012 and 2022, which was must faster than average for all professions. Median annual salaries were $46,260 as of May 2013. Requirements for Organizational Communication Jobs Education Many colleges and universities offer bachelor's and master's degree programs specifically geared toward organizational communication, while other schools offer general communications degrees with an emphasis in the subject. Bachelor's degree programs offer courses in communication theory, technical writing, conflict resolution and public speaking. Though a master's degree is not a requirement, students may find it beneficial in today's job market. In master's programs, students can acquire interpersonal communication and negotiation skills and learn about ethical communication and group dynamics in the workplace. Internships Internships in organizational communication may be mandatory at some academic institutions but can also prove beneficial for undergraduate students. These institutions team up with major corporations and other organizations to provide hands-on training for students who wish to gain experience. Graduate Certificates Graduate certificates in organizational communication are available for those who have completed their bachelor's degree and may even be working in the field. These certificates may be attained at various colleges and universities, both on-campus and online. Graduate certificate programs vary in length, but students may be expected to complete 12-18 course hours. Students need to meet graduate admissions requirements to attain a certificate, and some may decide to attain a graduate certificate in lieu of earning a more advanced degree. Some colleges allow students to apply their graduate certificate credits towards a master's degree. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Organizational Communication Jobs: Options and Requirements RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Public Relations (PR) Professions Video: Educational Requirements and Career Options Clinical Research Coordinator Video: Educational Requirements and Career Options Communication School in Houston Communication Degree in California Chicago Communication Colleges Communication Schools in Georgia Communication Degree in Texas Organizational Communication Degree Program Information Organizational communication is an area of study that concentrates on written, oral, interpersonal and electronic... Top PhD Programs in Communication: List of Schools A Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in the field of communication is for those who wish to pursue a career in teaching at the... Sharpen Communication Skills in College Good communication skills will help you in the job interview and beyond. Here's an outline of what you need to know as an... Associate of Organizational Management: Degree Overview An associate's degree program in organizational management can prepare students to manage personnel through effective... Applied Organizational Leadership Certificate: Summary of Program Top Communication Universities Communication Degree in Florida Graduate Certificate in Technical Communication: Program Options Top School in Troy, MI, for a Visual Communications Degree Organizational Architecture Education and Training Program Info How to Earn a Bounty Hunter License: Info and Requirements Phoenix Career Guide: Fastest Growing Phoenix, AZ Careers Pasadena, CA Employment Outlook: Job Market & Economy Summary Online Aerobics Instructor Training Information Overview of Courses for Communication Technicians Communication Skills Training and Education Program Information Psychologist Vs. Psychiatrist: What's the Difference? Online Carpentry Certificates and Certification Programs Career Information for a Degree in International Marketing Networking Degree Top College for Learning Networking and Telecommunications Technology - Tulsa OK Top Degrees in Electronics Technology - Austin TX Lab Technician Degree Top School with Degrees in Laboratory Technology - Houston TX Physical Therapy Tech Top Ranked School for a Degree in Information Systems Management - Cleveland OH Certified Nursing Assistant Texas Computer Science Degree Top School for a Career in Computer Science and Technology - Sacramento CA Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA in Communication - Public Relations MA in Communication International MBA in Social Media Marketing MBA in Social Media Marketing MA in Communication - Health Communication Bachelor BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Communication - Public Relations BS in Marketing - Social Media Marketing BS in Marketing BS in Business Studies - Marketing Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in Public Relations and Marketing BA in Public Relations and Marketing - Information Systems BA in Public Relations and Marketing - International Management BA in Public Relations and Marketing - Project Management Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate PhD in Organizational Development and Leadership - Social Media & Technology Specialization Master MA in Organizational Development and Leadership - Social Media and Technology Specialization Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Public Relations MFA in Media Design MS in New Media Journalism Bachelor BS in Media Communications Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 5Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Certificate - Public Relations Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 6Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA: Marketing Bachelor BA in Communications B.A. in Advertising and Public Relations with an Emphasis in Advertising Design BS in Marketing Bachelor of Arts in Advertising and Public Relations with an emphasis in Advertising Design Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 7Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Communication BS in Marketing Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 8Visual College of Art and Design School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older or have graduated high school School locations: (1 campus) Program Info Classroom-Based Programs Non-Degree Diploma in Marketing and Merchandising for Fashion Get Started with Visual College of Art and Design What year did you graduate high school? Select One... No high school - I am 19 or older 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 9Temple University School Info School locations: Pennsylvania (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Temple University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: First Professional Certificate, Post Master's Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Communications and Journalism Communication Studies Comparative Language Studies and Services Digital, Radio, and Television Communication English Composition English Language and Literature Foreign Language and Literature Journalism Public Relations and Advertising Advertising Organizational Communication Public Relations Get Started with Temple University Research Temple University's Degree Programs 10University of Dayton School Info School locations: Ohio (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Dayton include: Graduate: First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Communications and Journalism Communication Studies Digital, Radio, and Television Communication English Language and Literature Foreign Language and Literature Journalism Public Relations and Advertising Organizational Communication Public Relations Get Started with University of Dayton Research University of Dayton's Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area American Sign Language - ASL Communication Studies Communication Technology Comparative Language Studies and Services Digital, Radio, and Television Communication English Composition English Language and Literature Foreign Language and Literature Graphic Communications Journalism Public Relations and Advertising Publishing Select your specialty subject area Advertising Health Communication Organizational Communication Political Communication Public Relations What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University MA in Communication - Public Relations MA in Communication International MBA in Social Media Marketing MBA in Social Media Marketing MA in Communication - Health Communication BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Communication - Public Relations BS in Marketing - Social Media Marketing BS in Marketing BS in Business Studies - Marketing View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Ashford University BA in Public Relations and Marketing BA in Public Relations and Marketing - Information Systems BA in Public Relations and Marketing - International Management BA in Public Relations and Marketing - Project Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 University of the Rockies PhD in Organizational Development and Leadership - Social Media & Technology Specialization MA in Organizational Development and Leadership - Social Media and Technology Specialization What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Full Sail University MS in Public Relations MFA in Media Design MS in New Media Journalism BS in Media Communications What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 5 Penn Foster Career School Certificate - Public Relations What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 6 Grand Canyon University MBA: Marketing BA in Communications B.A. in Advertising and Public Relations with an Emphasis in Advertising Design BS in Marketing Bachelor of Arts in Advertising and Public Relations with an emphasis in Advertising Design View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 7 Colorado State University Global BS in Communication BS in Marketing What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 8 Visual College of Art and Design Diploma in Marketing and Merchandising for Fashion What year did you graduate high school? Select One... No high school - I am 19 or older 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 1993 1992 1991 1990 1989 1988 1987 1986 1985 1984 1983 1982 1981 1980 1979 1978 1977 1976 1975 1974 1973 1972 1971 1970 1969 1968 1967 1966 1965 1964 1963 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956 1955 1954 1953 1952 1951 1950 9 Temple University 10 University of Dayton Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
