#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 2011 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 2011 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 A Separation 2011 Jodái-e Náder az Simin / جدایی نادر از سیمین Ugly truth, sweet lies. Director: Asghar Farhadi. Cast: Leila Hatami, Kimia Hosseini, Merila Zarei, Peyman Moaadi, Sareh Bayat, Shahab Hosseini, Ali-Asghar Shahbazi, Shirin Yazdanbakhsh, Mohammad Sajadian, Armine Zeytounchian. Overview: The movie is centered on a couple, Nader and Simin, and their 11-year-old daughter, Termeh. Nader and Simin are about to leave the country for good; however, Nader has a change of heart and decides to stay and look after his father who suffers from Alzheimer's disease. Simin is determined to get a divorce and leave the country with her daughter, but the court does not find in her favor. Simin goes to live with her mother and Termeh returns to live with her father with the hope that her mother will be back some day. Genre: Drama. Country: Iran. Runtime: 2h 3m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 The Artist 2011 Director: Michel Hazanavicius. Cast: Jean Dujardin, Bérénice Bejo, John Goodman, James Cromwell, Penelope Ann Miller, Missi Pyle. Overview: Hollywood, 1927: As silent movie star George Valentin wonders if the arrival of talking pictures will cause him to fade into oblivion, he sparks with Peppy Miller, a young dancer set for a big break. Genres: Drama, Foreign. Country: France. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 Warrior 2011 Fight for Family Director: Gavin O'Connor. Cast: Tom Hardy, Jennifer Morrison, Nick Nolte, Joel Edgerton, Frank Grillo, Jennifer Morrison, Kevin Dunn, Maximiliano Hernández, Bryan Callen, Sam Sheridan, Jake McLaughlin, Vanessa Martinez, Denzel Whitaker, Carlos Miranda, Nick Lehane. Overview: An ex-Marine haunted by a tragic past, Tommy Riordan (Tom Hardy) returns to his hometown of Pittsburgh and enlists his father (Nick Nolte), a recovering alcoholic and his former coach, to train him for an MMA tournament awarding the biggest purse in the history of the sport. As Tommy blazes a violent path toward the title prize, his brother Brendan (Joel Edgerton), a former MMA fighter unable to make ends meet as a public school teacher, returns to the amateur ring to provide for his family. Even though years have passed, recriminations and past betrayals keep Brendan bitterly estranged from both Tommy and his father. But when Brendan's unlikely rise as an underdog sets him on a collision course with Tommy, the two brothers must finally confront the forces that tore them apart, all the while waging the most intense winner-take-all battle of their lives. Genres: Action, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 20m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Hugo 2011 Director: Martin Scorsese. Cast: Asa Butterfield, Chloe Moretz, Ben Kingsley, Sacha Baron Cohen, Jude Law, Christopher Lee, Helen McCrory, Michael Stuhlbarg, Marco Aponte, Emily Mortimer, Johnny Depp, Ray Winstone, Frances de la Tour, Richard Griffiths. Overview: Set in 1930s Paris, an orphan who lives in the walls of a train station is wrapped up in a mystery involving his late father and a robot. Genres: Family, Mystery. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo 2011 Evil shall with evil be expelled. Director: David Fincher. Cast: Daniel Craig, Stellan Skarsgård, Rooney Mara, Robin Wright, Christopher Plummer. Overview: This English-language adaptation of the Swedish novel by Stieg Larsson follows a disgraced journalist, Mikael Blomkvist (Daniel Craig), as he investigates the disappearance of a wearily patriarch's niece from 40 years ago. He is aided by the pierced, tattooed, punk computer hacker named Lisbeth Salander (Rooney Mara). As they work together in the investigation, Blomkvist and Salander uncover immense corruption beyond anything they have ever imagined. Genres: Drama, Foreign, Thriller, Crime. Runtime: 2h 31m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 2011 It all ends here Director: David Yates. Cast: Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Alan Rickman, Maggie Smith, Robbie Coltrane, Gemma Jones, Clémence Poésy, Emma Thompson, Warwick Davis, David Thewlis, Domhnall Gleeson, James Phelps, Oliver Phelps, Jim Broadbent. Overview: The end begins as Harry, Ron, and Hermione go back to Hogwarts to find and destroy Voldemorts final horcruxes, but when Voldemort finds out about their mission, the biggest battle begins and life as they know it will never be the same again. Genres: Action, Adventure, Family, Fantasy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 15m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 Drive 2011 Director: Nicolas Winding Refn. Cast: Ryan Gosling, Carey Mulligan, Christina Hendricks, Albert Brooks. Overview: A Hollywood stunt performer who moonlights as a wheelman discovers that a contract has been put on him after a heist gone wrong. Genres: Action, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 The Help 2011 Change begins with a whisper. Director: Tate Taylor. Cast: Emma Stone, Bryce Dallas Howard, Mike Vogel, Sissy Spacek, Viola Davis, Octavia Spencer, Cicely Tyson, Aunjanue Ellis. Overview: Aibileen Clark (Viola Davis) is a middle-aged African-American maid who has spent her life raising white children and has recently lost her only son; Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer) is an African-American maid who has often offended her employers despite her family's struggles with money and her desperate need for jobs; and Eugenia "Skeeter" Phelan (Emma Stone) is a young white woman who has recently moved back home after graduating college to find out her childhood maid has mysteriously disappeared. These three stories intertwine to explain how life in Jackson, Mississippi revolves around "the help"; yet they are always kept at a certain distance because of racial lines. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 26m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 50/50 2011 Director: Jonathan Levine. Cast: Bryce Dallas Howard, Anna Kendrick, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Seth Rogen, Anjelica Huston, Julia Benson, Philip Baker Hall. Overview: A comedic account of a 25-year-old guy's cancer diagnosis, and his subsequent struggle to beat the disease. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 The Muppets 2011 Director: James Bobin. Cast: Emily Blunt, John Krasinski, Zach Galifianakis, Jack Black, Ricky Gervais. Overview: Oil has been discovered beneath the Muppet Theater and oilman Tex Richman (Chris Cooper) plans to raze the Muppet Theater to drill. New Muppet Walter, the world's biggest Muppet fan, his brother Gary (Jason Segel) and Gary's girlfriend Mary (Amy Adams) learn about Tex Richman's plan, and try to stop him by staging The Greatest Muppet Telethon Ever, raising $10 million needed to save the theater. In order to stage The Greatest Muppet Telethon Ever, Walter, Mary, and Gary must help Kermit the Frog reunite the Muppets, who have all gone their separate ways. Fozzie Bear now performs with a Reno casino tribute band called the Moopets, Miss Piggy is a plus-size fashion editor at Vogue Paris, Animal is in a clinic for anger management, and Gonzo is a powerful plumbing magnate. Genres: Comedy, Family. Runtime: 2h. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 The Descendants 2011 Director: Alexander Payne. Cast: George Clooney, Judy Greer, Matthew Lillard, Shailene Woodley. Overview: A land baron tries to re-connect with his two daughters after his wife suffers a boating accident. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara 2011 Lets make this the most memorable road trip ever. Director: Zoya Akhtar. Cast: Hrithik Roshan, Farhan Akhtar, Abhay Deol, Katrina Kaif, Kalki Koechlin, Naseeruddin Shah, Ariadna Cabrol, Deepti Naval. Overview: Mumbai-based Kabir Dhiman, who comes from a wealthy building construction family, proposes to his long-time girlfriend, Natasha, much to the delight of both their respective families. He then gets together with one of two of his close friends, Imran Habib, a writer by profession, and they contact their London-based financial broker friend, Arjun, to remind him of a pact of traveling to Spain. The trio commence their long overdue trip not fully realizing that Arjun has still not forgiven Imran for his break-up with Sunani, while he himself regrets being dumped by Rohini, and must also compete with Imran for the affections of gorgeous Deep Sea Diving Instructor, Laila; Kabir struggles to accept life as Natasha's husband; and Imran must ready himself to meet his biological father, Salman, who had abandoned him at birth. Genres: Drama, Comedy, Romance, Foreign. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 15m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 X-Men: First Class 2011 Witness the moment that will change our world. Director: Matthew Vaughn. Cast: Michael Fassbender, Rose Byrne, Jennifer Lawrence, James McAvoy, January Jones, Kevin Bacon, Nicholas Hoult, Jason Flemyng, Zoë Kravitz, Oliver Platt. Overview: Before Charles Xavier and Erik Lensherr took the names Professor X and Magneto, they were two young men discovering their powers for the first time. Before they were archenemies, they were closest of friends, working together, with other Mutants (some familiar, some new), to stop the greatest threat the world has ever known. In the process, a rift between them opened, which began the eternal war between Magneto's Brotherhood and Professor X's X-MEN. Genres: Action, Drama, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Midnight in Paris 2011 Director: Woody Allen. Cast: Alison Pill, Rachel McAdams, Marion Cotillard, Michael Sheen, Owen Wilson, Adrien Brody, Kathy Bates. Overview: A romantic comedy about a family traveling to the French capital for business. The party includes a young engaged couple forced to confront the illusion that a life different from their own is better. Genres: Comedy, Indie, Romance. Countries: Spain, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 Moneyball 2011 Director: Bennett Miller. Cast: Brad Pitt, Jonah Hill, Robin Wright, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Chris Pratt. Overview: The story of Oakland A's general manager Billy Beane's successful attempt to put together a baseball club on a budget by employing computer-generated analysis to draft his players. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 We Need to Talk About Kevin 2011 Director: Lynne Ramsay. Cast: John C. Reilly, Tilda Swinton, Ezra Miller, Siobhan Fallon Hogan. Overview: The mother of a teenage sociopath who went on a high-school killing spree recalls her son's deranged behavior during childhood, as she deals with her grief. Genres: Drama, Thriller, Foreign. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol 2011 Director: Brad Bird. Cast: Tom Cruise, Jeremy Renner, Simon Pegg, Anil Kapoor, Josh Holloway, Paula Patton, Ving Rhames, Miraj Grbic, Ivan Shvedoff. Overview: Tom Cruise returns to his Ethan Hunt character popularized by the previous three installments with this fourth entry produced by J.J. Abrams. Josh Appelbaum and André Nemec provide the script for the Paramount production. Genres: Action, Adventure, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 The Adventures of Tintin 2011 Director: Steven Spielberg. Cast: Daniel Craig, Simon Pegg, Cary Elwes, Jamie Bell, Andy Serkis, Nick Frost, Mackenzie Crook, Tony Curran, Toby Jones, Daniel Mays, Sebastian Roché, Phillip Rhys, Mark Ivanir, Gad Elmaleh, Jacquie Barnbrook. Overview: The Adventures of Tintin: Secret of the Unicorn is an upcoming 2011 American performance capture 3D film based on The Adventures of Tintin, a series of comic books created by Belgian artist Georges "Hergé" Remi. It is directed by Steven Spielberg, produced by Peter Jackson, and written by Steven Moffat, Edgar Wright and Joe Cornish. The script is based on three of the stories: The Crab with the Golden Claws, The Secret of the Unicorn and Red Rackham's Treasure. Genres: Family, Adventure, Animation. Countries: Belgium, New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 47m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows 2011 Director: Guy Ritchie. Cast: Robert Downey Jr., Jude Law, Rachel McAdams, Jared Harris, Stephen Fry, Noomi Rapace, Eddie Marsan, Kelly Reilly, Geraldine James. Overview: Sherlock Holmes has always been the smartest man in the room…until now. There is a new criminal mastermind at large...Professor Moriarty, and not only is he Holmes’ intellectual equal, but his capacity for evil, coupled with a complete lack of conscience, may actually give him an advantage over the renowned detective. When the Crown Prince of Austria is found dead, the evidence, as construed by Inspector Lestrade, points to suicide. But Sherlock Holmes deduces that the prince has been the victim of murder, a murder that is only one piece of a larger and much more portentous puzzle, designed by one Professor Moriarty. Genres: Action, Adventure, Mystery, Thriller, Crime. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 9m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 Rise of the Planet of the Apes 2011 Planet of the Apes: Rise of the Planet of the Apes Evolution Becomes Revolution. Director: Rupert Wyatt. Cast: James Franco, Andy Serkis, Freida Pinto, Tyler Labine, David Hewlett, Leah Gibson, David Oyelowo, Chelah Horsdal, Karin Konoval, Jamie Harris. Overview: An origin story set in present day San Francisco, where man's own experiments with genetic engineering lead to the development of intelligence in apes and the onset of a war for supremacy. Genres: Action, Science Fiction, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 The Skin I live In 2011 Director: Pedro Almodóvar. Cast: Antonio Banderas, Elena Anaya. Overview: Ever since his wife was burned in a car crash, Dr. Robert Ledgard, an eminent plastic surgeon, has been interested in creating a new skin with which he could have saved her. After twelve years, he manages to cultivate a skin that is a real shield against every assault. In addition to years of study and experimentation, Robert needed three more things: no scruples, an accomplice and a human guinea pig. Scruples were never a problem. Marilia, the woman who looked after him from the day he was born, is his most faithful accomplice. And as for the human guinea pig…(c) Sony Pictures Classics Genres: Drama, Foreign, Horror. Runtime: 1h 57m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Delhi Belly 2011 S#!t Happens Director: Abhinay Deo. Cast: Imran Khan, Kunaal Roy Kapur, Vir Das, Shenaz Treasurywala. Overview: Delhi Belly is an upcoming Hindi film, directed by Abhinay Deo. Tashi Malhotra (Imran Khan) is an elder son in a family with 3 brothers and 2 sisters. Tashi owns a factory that is worth 100’s of crores. Janardhan (Rahul Singh) - a carefree employee of Lakshmi Industries - plans to take revenge on Tashi by creating differences in his family and succeeds in it. The rest of the story is all about how Tashi unites his family members and wins back his lady love Sunita (Poorna Jaganathan). Genre: Comedy. Country: India. Runtime: 1h 42m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Carnage 2011 A new comedy of no manners Director: Roman Polanski. Cast: Kate Winslet, Jodie Foster, Christoph Waltz, John C. Reilly. Overview: Tells the story of two sets of parents who decide to have a cordial meeting after their sons are involved in a schoolyard brawl. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Runtime: 1h 19m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Source Code 2011 Make Every Second Count Director: Duncan Jones. Cast: Jake Gyllenhaal, Michelle Monaghan, Vera Farmiga, Russell Peters, Joe Cobden, Michael Arden, Jeffrey Wright. Overview: When decorated soldier Captain Colter Stevens wakes up in the body of an unknown man, he discovers he's part of a mission to find the bomber of a Chicago commuter train. He learns he's part of a government experiment, a program that enables him to cross over into another man's identity in the last 8 minutes of his life. Colter re-lives the incident over and over again, gathering clues each time, until he can solve the mystery of who is behind the bombs and prevent the next attack. Genres: Drama, Science Fiction, Suspense, Thriller. Countries: United States of America, Canada. Runtime: 1h 33m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy 2011 How do you find an enemy who is hidden right before your eyes? Director: Tomas Alfredson. Cast: John Hurt, Gary Oldman, Kathy Burke, Benedict Cumberbatch, Colin Firth, Mark Strong, Toby Jones, Stephen Graham, Ciarán Hinds, Simon McBurney, David Dencik, Tom Hardy, Svetlana Khodchenkova, Arthur Nightingale, Zoltán Mucsi. Overview: George Smiley, a recently retired MI6 agent, is doing his best to adjust to a life outside the secret service. However, when a disgraced agent reappears with information concerning a mole at the heart of the service, Smiley is drawn back into the murky field of espionage. Tasked with investigating which of his trusted former colleagues has chosen to betray him and their country, Smiley narrows his search to four suspects - all experienced, skilled and successful agents - but past histories, rivalries and friendships make it far from easy to pinpoint the man who is eating away at the heart of the British establishment. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Countries: Germany, France, United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 Crazy, Stupid, Love 2011 Directors: Glenn Ficarra, John Requa. Cast: Steve Carell, Julianne Moore, Ryan Gosling, Emma Stone, Marisa Tomei, Kevin Bacon, Joey King, Crystal Reed, Liza Lapira, Analeigh Tipton, Josh Groban, Jenny Mollen, Richard Steven Horvitz, Beth Littleford. Overview: A father's life unravels while he deals with a marital crisis and tries to manage his relationship with his children. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 War Horse 2011 Director: Steven Spielberg. Cast: Tom Hiddleston, Benedict Cumberbatch, Toby Kebbell, Emily Watson, Jeremy Irvine. Overview: Follows a young man named Albert and his horse, Joey, and how their bond is broken when Joey is sold to the cavalry and sent to the trenches of World War One. Despite being too young to enlist, Albert heads to France to save his friend. Genres: War, Drama. Runtime: 2h 26m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 Kung Fu Panda 2 2011 Prepare For The Year of Awesomeness Director: Jennifer Yuh. Cast: Seth Rogen, Angelina Jolie, Gary Oldman, Jack Black, David Cross, Dustin Hoffman, Jackie Chan, Lucy Liu, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Michelle Yeoh, James Hong. Overview: Po is now living his dream as The Dragon Warior, protecting the Valley of Peace alongside his friends and fellow kung fu masters, The Furious Five – Tigress, Crane, Mantis, Viper and Monkey. But Po’s new life of awesomeness is threatened by the emergence of a formidable villain, who plans to use a secret, unstoppable weapon to conquer China and destroy kung fu. It is up to Po and The Furious Five to journey across China to face this threat and vanquish it. But how can Po stop a weapon that can stop kung fu? He must look to his past and uncover the secrets of his mysterious origins; only then will he be able to unlock the strength he needs to succeed. Genres: Animation, Action, Adventure, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 30m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Jane Eyre 2011 Director: Cary Fukunaga. Cast: Mia Wasikowska, Jamie Bell, Michael Fassbender, Judi Dench. Overview: After a bleak childhood, Jane Eyre goes out into the world to become a governess. As she lives happily in her new position at Thornfield Hall, she meet the dark, cold, and abrupt master of the house, Mr. Rochester. Jane and her employer grow close in friendship and she soon finds herself falling in love with him. Happiness seems to have found Jane at last, but could Mr. Rochester's terrible secret be about to destroy it forever? Genres: Drama, Romance, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Melancholia 2011 Director: Lars von Trier. Cast: Kirsten Dunst, Charlotte Gainsbourg, Kiefer Sutherland, Charlotte Rampling, John Hurt, Alexander Skarsgård, Stellan Skarsgård, Brady Corbet, Udo Kier, Jesper Christensen, Cameron Spurr, Deborah Fronko. Overview: Two sisters find their relationship challenged as a nearby planet threatens to collide into the Earth. Genres: Drama, Horror. Countries: Denmark, France. Runtime: 2h 16m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 Rango 2011 Heroes come in all different colors. Director: Gore Verbinski. Cast: Johnny Depp, Isla Fisher, Ned Beatty, Bill Nighy, Alfred Molina, Abigail Breslin, Claudia Black, Timothy Olyphant, Ray Winstone. Overview: Rango is a sheltered chameleon living as an ordinary family pet, while facing a major identity crisis. After all, how high can you aim when your whole purpose in life is to blend in? When Rango accidentally winds up in the gritty, gun-slinging town of Dirt - a lawless outpost populated by the desert's most wily and whimsical creatures - the less-than-courageous lizard suddenly finds he stands out. Welcomed as the last hope the town has been waiting for, new Sheriff Rango is forced to play his new role to the hilt... Genres: Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Family, Western. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 47m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 The Ides of March 2011 Ambition seduces. Power corrupts. Director: George Clooney. Cast: George Clooney, Ryan Gosling, Evan Rachel Wood, Marisa Tomei, Paul Giamatti, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Jeffrey Wright, Max Minghella, Jennifer Ehle, Gregory Itzin, Michael Mantell, Yuriy Sardarov, Bella Ivory, Maya Sayre, Danny Mooney. Overview: An idealistic staffer for a newbie presidential candidate gets a crash course on dirty politics during his stint on the campaign trail. Based on the play by Beau Willimon. Genres: Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 41m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 Don 2 2011 The Chase Continues... Director: Farhan Akhtar. Cast: Shahrukh Khan, Priyanka Chopra, Boman Irani, Lara Dutta, Kunal Kapoor, Om Puri, Hrithik Roshan. Overview: The bosses of the European drug cartel meet in the French Riviera to discuss a new threat emerging from Asia. Don is jeopardizing their business because he is able to sell drugs at a much lower price. The bosses send word out that Don must die. Don has been living in Thailand for the past five years and goes to a remote settlement to pick up a shipment of drugs. Instead of a normal transaction, Don has to fight his way out because the more powerful European bosses want him dead. He then goes back to Malaysia where he surrenders to Roma and Inspector Malik. Don is sentenced to death and sent to a Malaysian prison where he meets Vardhaan. Don and Vardhaan escape the prison by poisoning all the inmates and go to Switzerland where they retrieve the contents of a locker only Vardhaan could access. The locker holds a tape that shows Diwan, the vice president of a money printing bank, bribing someone to kill a competitor. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 The Lincoln Lawyer 2011 Director: Brad Furman. Cast: Matthew McConaughey, Ryan Phillippe, Josh Lucas, Michaela Conlin, Margarita Levieva. Overview: A lawyer conducts business from the back of his Lincoln town car while representing a high-profile client in Beverly Hills. Genres: Crime, Drama, Mystery, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 58m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 The Guard 2011 Director: John Michael McDonagh. Cast: Brendan Gleeson, Don Cheadle, Liam Cunningham, Katarina Cas. Overview: An unorthodox Irish policeman with a confrontational personality is teamed up with an uptight FBI agent to investigate an international drug-smuggling ring. Genres: Action, Comedy, Thriller, Foreign. Country: Ireland. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 Win Win 2011 In the game of life, you can't lose 'em all. Director: Thomas McCarthy. Cast: Paul Giamatti, Melanie Lynskey, Amy Ryan, Jeffrey Tambor, Alex Shaffer, Bobby Cannavale. Overview: When down-on-his-luck part-time high school wrestling coach Mike agrees to become legal guardian to an elderly man, his ward's troubled grandson turns out to be a star grappler, sparking dreams of a big win -- until the boy's mother retrieves him. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Sport. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 Fast Five 2011 Director: Justin Lin. Cast: Dwayne Johnson, Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Jordana Brewster, Tyrese Gibson, Elsa Pataky, Ludacris, Sung Kang, Gal Gadot, Matt Schulze, Joaquim de Almeida. Overview: Former cop Brian O'Conner partners with ex-con Dom Toretto on the opposite side of the law. Since Brian and Mia Toretto broke Dom out of custody, they've blown across many borders to elude authorities. Now backed into a corner in Rio de Janeiro, they must pull one last job in order to gain their freedom. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 Winnie the Pooh 2011 Oh Pooh. Directors: Stephen Anderson, Don Hall. Cast: Jim Cummings, Travis Oates, Jim Cummings, Bud Luckey, Craig Ferguson, Tom Kenny, Kirsten Anderson-Lopez, Wyatt Hall, Jack Bouleter, Huell Howser, John Cleese. Overview: During an ordinary day in Hundred Acre Wood, Winnie the Pooh sets out to find some honey. Misinterpreting a note from Christopher Robin, Pooh convinces Tigger, Rabbit, Piglet, Owl, Kanga, Roo, and Eeyore that their young friend has been captured by a creature named "Backson" and they set out to save him. Genres: Adventure, Animation, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 3m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Real Steel 2011 If you get one shot, make it real. Director: Shawn Levy. Cast: Hope Davis, Anthony Mackie, Evangeline Lilly, Hugh Jackman, Kevin Durand, Dakota Goyo, Phil LaMarr, Olga Fonda, Karl Yune, David Alan Basche, Michael Patrick Carmody, Richard Goteri, Steven Hugh Nelson, Ron Causey , James Rebhorn. Overview: A gritty, white-knuckle, action ride set in the near-future, where the sport of boxing has gone hi-tech. Charlie Kenton is a washed-up fighter who lost his chance at a title when 2000-pound, 8-foot-tall steel robots took over the ring. Now nothing but a small-time promoter, Charlie earns just enough money piecing together low-end bots from scrap metal to get from one underground boxing venue to the next. When Charlie hits rock bottom, he reluctantly teams up with his estranged son Max to build and train a championship contender. As the stakes in the brutal, no-holds-barred arena are raised, Charlie and Max, against all odds, get one last shot at a comeback. (Touchstone Pictures)  Genres: Action, Science Fiction, Drama, Sport. Countries: United States of America, India. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Limitless 2011 What if a pill could make you rich and powerful? Director: Neil Burger. Cast: Bradley Cooper, Robert De Niro, Abbie Cornish, Andrew Howard, Anna Friel, Johnny Whitworth, Robert John Burke, Darren Goldstein, Ned Eisenberg, T.V. Carpio, Richard Bekins, Patricia Kalember. Overview: A copywriter discovers a top-secret drug which bestows him with super human abilities. Genre: Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 44m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 Super 8 2011 Director: J.J. Abrams. Cast: Kyle Chandler, Elle Fanning, Ron Eldard, Noah Emmerich, Amanda Michalka. Overview: In the summer of 1979, a group of friends in a small Ohio town witness a catastrophic train crash while making a super 8 movie and soon suspect that it was not an accident. Shortly after, unusual disappearances and inexplicable events begin to take place in town, and the local Deputy tries to uncover the truth – something more terrifying than any of them could have imagined. Genres: Science Fiction, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 Margin Call 2011 Be first. Be smarter. Or cheat. Director: J.C. Chandor. Cast: Kevin Spacey, Paul Bettany, Jeremy Irons, Zachary Quinto, Ashley Williams, Demi Moore, Simon Baker, Penn Badgley, Mary McDonnell, Stanley Tucci, Aasif Mandvi, Susan Blackwell, Maria Dizzia. Overview: A thriller that revolves around the key people at a investment bank over a 24-hour period during the early stages of the financial crisis. Genres: Suspense, Thriller, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 47m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 The Inbetweeners Movie 2011 Director: Ben Palmer. Cast: Simon Bird, James Buckley, Blake Harrison, Joe Thomas. Overview: Will, Neil, Simon and Jay, four socially troubled eighteen-year-olds from the south of England go on holiday to Crete. Runtime: 1h 37m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 The Tree of Life 2011 Director: Terrence Malick. Cast: Brad Pitt, Sean Penn, Jessica Chastain, Fiona Shaw, Joanna Going. Overview: The story centers around a family with three boys in the 1950s. The eldest son witnesses the loss of innocence. Genres: Drama, Fantasy, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 18m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 J. Edgar 2011 The Most Powerful Man in the World Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Leonardo DiCaprio, Geoff Pierson, Naomi Watts, Josh Hamilton, Judi Dench, Gunner Wright, Kaitlyn Dever, Adam Driver, Armie Hammer, Ed Westwick, Jessica Hecht, Josh Lucas, Dermot Mulroney, Denis O'Hare, Lea Thompson. Overview: As the face of law enforcement in America for almost 50 years, J. Edgar Hoover was feared and admired, reviled and revered. But behind closed doors, he held secrets that would have destroyed his image, his career and his life. Genres: Crime, Drama, History. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 17m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 A Very Harold & Kumar Christmas 2011 Christmas comes prematurely. Director: Todd Strauss-Schulson. Cast: Neil Patrick Harris, John Cho, Elias Koteas, Danneel Harris, Kal Penn, Patton Oswalt, Isabella Gielniak, Austin Bickel, Inga R. Wilson, Brett Gelman, Danny Trejo, Paula Garcés. Overview: Six years have elapsed since Guantanamo Bay, leaving Harold and Kumar estranged from one another with very different families, friends and lives. But when Kumar arrives on Harold's doorstep during the holiday season with a mysterious package in hand, he inadvertently burns down Harold's father-in-law's beloved Christmas tree. To fix the problem, Harold and Kumar embark on a mission through New York City to find the perfect Christmas tree, once again stumbling into trouble at every single turn. Genres: Comedy, Adventure. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Kill the Irishman 2011 The man the mob couldn't kill. Director: Jonathan Hensleigh. Cast: Ray Stevenson, Vincent D'Onofrio, Val Kilmer, Christopher Walken, Linda Cardellini, Tony Darrow, Robert Davi, Fionnula Flanagan, Bob Gunton, Jason Butler Harner, Vinnie Jones, Tony Lo Bianco, Laura Ramsey, Steve Schirripa, Paul Sorvino. Overview: Over the summer of 1976, thirty-six bombs detonate in the heart of Cleveland while a turf war raged between Irish mobster Danny Greene and the Italian mafia. Based on a true story, kill the Irishman chronicles Greene's heroic rise from a tough Cleveland neighborhood to become an enforcer in the local mob. Turning the tables on loan shark Shondor Birns and allying himself with gangster John Nardi, Greene stops taking orders from the mafia and pursues his own power. Surviving countless assassination attempts from the mob and killing off anyone who went after him in retaliation, Danny Greene's infamous invincibility and notorious fearlessness eventually led to the collapse of mafia syndicates across the U.S. and also earned him the status of the man the mob couldn't kill. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 The Devil's Double 2011 The 80's were brilliant, if you were in charge. Director: Lee Tamahori. Cast: Mem Ferda, Dominic Cooper, Ludivine Sagnier, Raad Rawi. Overview: A chilling vision of the House of Saddam Hussein comes to life through the eyes of the man who was forced to become the double of Hussein's sadistic son. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Suspense, War. Country: Belgium. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 Paul 2011 Who's up for a close encounter? Director: Greg Mottola. Cast: Seth Rogen, Jane Lynch, Kristen Wiig, Jason Bateman, Sigourney Weaver, Simon Pegg, Bill Hader, Blythe Danner, Nick Frost, Jeffrey Tambor, Steven Spielberg, David Koechner, Jennifer Granger. Overview: For the past 60 years, a space-traveling smart-ass named Paul has been locked up in a top-secret military base, advising world leaders about his kind. But when he worries he’s outlived his usefulness and the dissection table is drawing uncomfortably close, Paul escapes on the first RV that passes by his compound in Area 51. Fortunately, it contains the two earthlings who are most likely to rescue and harbor an alien on the run. Genres: Comedy, Science Fiction, Foreign. Countries: France, United States of America, United Kingdom, Spain. Runtime: 1h 44m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 The Adjustment Bureau 2011 Fight for your fate. Director: George Nolfi. Cast: Matt Damon, Emily Blunt, John Slattery, Anthony Mackie, Lauren Hodges, Purva Bedi, Shane McRae, Terence Stamp, Michael Kelly. Overview: Just as he is on the brink of winning a senate seat, politician David Norris meets a ballerina named Elise Sellas. Though David is smitten, mysterious men conspire to keep him away from the beautiful dancer. David learns he is up against the powerful agents of Fate itself, and, glimpsing the future laid out before him, must either accept a predetermined path that does not include Elise, or defy Fate to be with her. Genres: Romance, Science Fiction, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: PG-13. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
