#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-independent-movies.html
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
#Title#
Best Independent Movies to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Independent Movies Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy What we have come to recognize as an independent movie aesthetic—small-ensemble casts, limited use of exterior and location shooting, and an emphasis on conversation over action and exciting special effects stems primarily from an effort to stay within tight budgets. Independent films are also recognizable by how they are "platformed" in the entertainment marketplace, by the way promotion and advertising is handled, and by selective versus saturation distribution. Big films are released into thousands of theaters all at once, while with some independent titles, only a handful of prints are available for screening at any one time, and they are screened almost exclusively in small, so-called art-house theaters. Watch best independent movies of all time! Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 Pulp Fiction 1994 Just because you are a character doesn't mean you have character. Director: Quentin Tarantino. Cast: John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman, Bruce Willis, Maria de Medeiros, Ving Rhames, Harvey Keitel, Eric Stoltz, Tim Roth, Amanda Plummer, Peter Greene, Rosanna Arquette, Duane Whitaker, Paul Calderon, Frank Whaley. Overview: Pulp Fiction is a cult film by Director Quentin Tarantino with three interwoven plots with lots of violence, absurdity, and great music. The film is Tarantino’s most famous and the film that cemented his name and style in Hollywood. Genres: Crime, Drama, Indie, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 28m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest 1975 If he's crazy, what does that make you? Director: Milos Forman. Cast: Jack Nicholson, Louise Fletcher, William Redfield, Michael Berryman, Peter Brocco, Dean R. Brooks, Alonzo Brown, Scatman Crothers, Mwako Cumbuka, Danny DeVito, William Duell, Josip Elic, Lan Fendors, Nathan George, Ken Kenny. Overview: While serving time for insanity at a state mental hospital, implacable rabble-rouser Randle Patrick McMurphy inspires his fellow patients to rebel against the authoritarian rule of head nurse Mildred Ratched. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 13m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 Psycho 1960 Check in. Relax. Take a shower. Directors: Alfred Hitchcock, Hilton A. Green. Cast: Anthony Perkins, Vera Miles, John Gavin, Janet Leigh, Martin Balsam, John McIntire, Simon Oakland, Frank Albertson, Patricia Hitchcock, Vaughn Taylor, Lurene Tuttle, Mort Mills, John Anderson. Overview: Psycho is one of the most famous masterpieces from Hitchcock and for it’s time was unparalleled in it’s horror effect. A chilling score sets the pace for an introverted killer and a mystery thriller case of multiple dimensions. The credits for the film directed by Saul Bass were revolutionary for their time. Genres: Drama, Horror, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 The Usual Suspects 1995 Five Criminals . One Line Up . No Coincidence. Director: Bryan Singer. Cast: Kevin Spacey, Stephen Baldwin, Gabriel Byrne, Benicio Del Toro, Kevin Pollak, Chazz Palminteri, Pete Postlethwaite, Giancarlo Esposito, Suzy Amis, Dan Hedaya, Christine Estabrook, Clark Gregg, Louis Lombardi, Paul Bartel, Peter Greene. Overview: A boat has been destroyed, criminals are dead, and the key to this mystery lies with the only survivor and his twisted, convoluted story beginning with five career crooks in a seemingly random police lineup. Genres: Crime, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 Se7en 1995 Seven Seven deadly sins. Seven ways to die. Director: David Fincher. Cast: Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, R. Lee Ermey, Andrew Kevin Walker, Kevin Spacey, Daniel Zacapa, John Cassini, Hawthorne James, Richard Roundtree, John C. McGinley. Overview: Two homicide detectives are on a desperate hunt for a serial killer whose crimes are based on the "seven deadly sins" in this dark and haunting film that takes viewers from the tortured remains of one victim to the next. The seasoned Det. Sommerset researches each sin in an effort to get inside the killer's mind, while his novice partner, Mills, scoffs at his efforts to unravel the case. Genres: Crime, Horror, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 Memento 2001 Some memories are best forgotten. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Guy Pearce, Carrie-Anne Moss, Joe Pantoliano, Mark Boone Junior, Russ Fega, Jorja Fox, Stephen Tobolowsky, Harriet Sansom Harris, Thomas Lennon, Callum Keith Rennie, Kimberly Campbell, Marianne Muellerleile, Larry Holden, Buzz Visconti. Overview: Suffering short-term memory loss after a head injury, Leonard Shelby embarks on a grim quest to find the lowlife who murdered his wife in this gritty, complex thriller that packs more knots than a hangman's noose. To carry out his plan, Shelby snaps Polaroids of people and places, jotting down contextual notes on the backs of photos to aid in his search and jog his memory. He even tattoos his own body in a desperate bid to remember. Genres: Crime, Drama, Suspense, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 Leon: The Professional 1994 Léon If you want a job done well, hire a professional. Director: Luc Besson. Cast: Jean Reno, Natalie Portman, Gary Oldman, Danny Aiello, Peter Appel, Willi One Blood, Don Creech, Keith A. Glascoe, Michael Badalucco. Overview: Léon, the top hit man in New York, has earned a rep as an effective "cleaner." But when his next-door neighbors are wiped out by a loose-cannon DEA agent, he becomes the unwilling custodian of 12-year-old Mathilda. Before long, Mathilda's thoughts turn to revenge, and she considers following in Léon's footsteps. Genres: Crime, Thriller. Countries: France, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 50m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb 1964 Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Peter Sellers, George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden, Slim Pickens, Keenan Wynn, Peter Bull, Jack Creley, Tracy Reed. Overview: An insane general starts a process to nuclear holocaust that a war room of politicians and generals frantically try to stop. A classic black and white war satire from director Stanley Kubrick starring Peter Sellers. Genres: Comedy, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 34m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 Apocalypse Now 1979 This is the end... Director: Francis Ford Coppola. Cast: Martin Sheen, Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall, Laurence Fishburne, Sam Bottoms, Frederic Forrest, Albert Hall, Harrison Ford, Dennis Hopper, G. D. Spradlin, Jerry Ziesmer, Francis Ford Coppola, Tom Mason, Scott Glenn, Colleen Camp. Overview: At the height of the Vietnam war, Captain Benjamin Willard is sent on a dangerous mission that, officially, "does not exist, nor will it ever exist." His goal is to locate - and eliminate - a mysterious Green Beret Colonel named Walter Kurtz, who has been leading his personal army on illegal guerrilla missions into enemy territory. Genres: Action, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 33m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 American History X 1998 Some Legacies Must End. Director: Tony Kaye. Cast: Edward Norton, Edward Furlong, Beverly D'Angelo, Avery Brooks, Jennifer Lien, Ethan Suplee, Stacy Keach, Fairuza Balk, Elliott Gould, Guy Torry, William Russ, Joe Cortese, Jason Bose Smith, Antonio David Lyons, Alex Sol. Overview: Derek Vineyard is paroled after serving 3 years in prison for killing two thugs who tried to break into/steal his truck. Through his brother, Danny Vineyard's narration, we learn that before going to prison, Derek was a skinhead and the leader of a violent white supremacist gang that committed acts of racial crime throughout L.A. and his actions greatly influenced Danny. Reformed and fresh out of prison, Derek severs contact with the gang and becomes determined to keep Danny from going down the same violent path as he did. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Paths of Glory 1957 Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Kirk Douglas, Ralph Meeker, Adolphe Menjou, George Macready, Wayne Morris, Richard Anderson, Joe Turkel, Timothy Carey. Overview: Stanley Kubrick’s Paths of Glory is among the most powerful antiwar films ever made. A fiery Kirk Douglas stars as a World War I French colonel who goes head-to-head with the army’s ruthless top brass when his men are accused of cowardice after being unable to carry out an impossible mission. This haunting, exquisitely photographed dissection of the military machine in all its absurdity and capacity for dehumanization (a theme Kubrick would continue to explore throughout his career) is assembled with its legendary director’s customary precision, from its tense trench warfare sequences to its gripping courtroom climax to its ravaging final scene. Genres: Drama, History, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 26m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 American Beauty 1999 Look closer. Director: Sam Mendes. Cast: Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening, Thora Birch, Wes Bentley, Mena Suvari, Chris Cooper, Scott Bakula, Peter Gallagher, Allison Janney, Sam Robards, Barry Del Sherman. Overview: Lester Burnham, a depressed suburban father in a mid-life crisis, decides to turn his hectic life around after developing an infatuation with his daughter's attractive friend. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 Requiem for a Dream 2000 Director: Darren Aronofsky. Cast: Ellen Burstyn, Jared Leto, Jennifer Connelly, Marlon Wayans, Christopher McDonald, Louise Lasser. Overview: The hopes and dreams of four ambitious people are shattered when their drug addictions begin spiraling out of control. A look into addiction and how it overcomes the mind and body. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind 2004 I already forget how I used to feel about you. Director: Michel Gondry. Cast: Jim Carrey, Kate Winslet, Elijah Wood, Mark Ruffalo, Kirsten Dunst, Tom Wilkinson, Ryan Whitney, Jane Adams, Debbon Ayer, David Cross, Gerry Robert Byrne, Brian Price, Josh Flitter, Paul Litowsky, Lola Daehler. Overview: A man, Joel Barish, heartbroken that his girlfriend Clementine underwent a procedure to erase him from her memory, decides to do the same. However, as he watches his memories of her fade away, he realizes that he still loves her, and may be too late to correct his mistake. Genres: Science Fiction, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 48m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 Reservoir Dogs 1992 Every dog has his day. Director: Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth, Michael Madsen, Chris Penn, Steve Buscemi, Lawrence Tierney, Edward Bunker, Quentin Tarantino, Randy Brooks, Kirk Baltz, Steven Wright, Rich Turner, David Steen, Tony Cosmo, Stevo Polyi. Overview: A botched robbery indicates a police informant, and the pressure mounts in the aftermath at a warehouse. Crime begets violence as the survivors -- veteran Mr. White, newcomer Mr. Orange, psychopathic parolee Mr. Blonde, bickering weasel Mr. Pink and Nice Guy Eddie -- unravel. Genres: Crime, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 39m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Monty Python and the Holy Grail 1975 Makes Ben Hur look like an Epic Directors: Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones. Cast: Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Michael Palin, Terry Gilliam, Terry Jones, Graham Chapman, Graham Chapman, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, John Cleese, John Cleese, John Cleese, John Cleese, Eric Idle. Overview: The King Arthur and The Round Table saga about the search for the Holy Grail is portrayed a bit differently in this comedy from Monty Python. With a killer monster rabbit and many outrageous encounters this smart comedy has become a cult classic. Genres: Action, Comedy, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 31m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Amadeus 1984 Amadeus. The man. The music. The magic. The madness. The murder. The mystery. The motion picture. Director: Milos Forman. Cast: F. Murray Abraham, Tom Hulce, Elizabeth Berridge, Roy Dotrice, Simon Callow, Christine Ebersole, Jeffrey Jones, Barbara Bryne. Overview: Amadeus is the story of the last ten years of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s life told by Director Milos Forman. The main story is about the conflict between a genius’ need for fun and a society that disgraces that type of thing. A spectacular picture about one of the most gifted composers of all times with memorable acting by Tom Hulce who played Mozart. Genres: Drama, History, Music. Countries: Austria, Czech Republic. Runtime: 2h 40m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 2001: A Space Odyssey 1968 The Ultimate Trip. Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Keir Dullea, Douglas Rain, Gary Lockwood, William Sylvester, Daniel Richter, Leonard Rossiter, Margaret Tyzack, Robert Beatty, Sean Sullivan. Overview: The highly respected and often cited milestone in Science Fiction cinema. Director Stanley Kubrick takes us into the future, into outer space and aboard a spacecraft that’s controlled by a seemingly trustworthy computer named HAL. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Science Fiction, Thriller. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Rated: G. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Hotel Rwanda 2004 When the world closed its eyes, he opened his arms. Director: Terry George. Cast: Don Cheadle, Nick Nolte, Sophie Okonedo, Joaquin Phoenix, Jean Reno, Ofentse Modiselle, Mathabo Pieterson, Neil McCarthy, Desmond Dube, Hakeem Kae-Kazim, Tony Kgoroge, Fana Mokoena, Lebo Mashile, Antonio David Lyons, Leleti Khumalo. Overview: Inspired by true events this film takes place in Rwanda in the 1990’s when more than a million Tutsis’ were killed in a Genocide that went mostly unnoticed by the rest of the world. Hotel owner Paul Rusesabagina houses over a thousand refuges in his hotel in attempt to save their lives. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Countries: United Kingdom, Italy, United States of America, South Africa. Runtime: 2h 1m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 Fargo 1996 A lot can happen in the middle of nowhere. Directors: Joel Coen, Ethan Coen. Cast: William H. Macy, Frances McDormand, Steve Buscemi, Peter Stormare, Kristin Rudrüd, Harve Presnell, Tony Denman, Gary Houston, John Carroll Lynch, Sally Wingert, Steve Reevis, Steve Park. Overview: Oscar winning film from the Coen brothers that takes place in the snow covered wasteland of their home-state, Minnesota. A clueless car dealer, Jerry Lundegard, stages the kidnapping of his wife in order to get money from his father-in-law. However, it doesn't take long for his plan to start unravelling. Genres: Comedy, Crime, Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 38m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 The Big Lebowski 1998 The Dude abides. Director: Joel Coen. Cast: Jeff Bridges, John Goodman, Steve Buscemi, Julianne Moore, David Huddleston, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Tara Reid, Philip Moon, Mark Pellegrino, Peter Stormare, Flea, Torsten Voges, Jimmie Dale Gilmore, Jack Kehler, John Turturro. Overview: "Dude" Lebowski, mistaken for millionaire Lebowski, seeks restitution for his ruined rug and enlists his bowling buddies to help get it. Genres: Comedy, Crime. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 Platoon 1986 The first casualty of war is innocence. Director: Oliver Stone. Cast: Charlie Sheen, Willem Dafoe, Forest Whitaker, Kevin Dillon, John C. McGinley, Francesco Quinn, Richard Edson, Reggie Johnson, Keith David, David Neidorf, Mark Moses, Chris Pedersen, Ivan Kane, Paul Sanchez, J. Adam Glover. Overview: A young recruit in Vietnam faces a moral crisis when confronted with the horrors of war and the duality of man. Genres: Action, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Donnie Darko 2001 You can never go too far. Director: Richard Kelly. Cast: Jake Gyllenhaal, Patrick Swayze, Drew Barrymore, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Holmes Osborne, Daveigh Chase, Mary McDonnell, James Duval, Arthur Taxier, Mark Hoffman, Patience Cleveland, David St. James, Jazzie Mahannah, Jolene Purdy, Beth Grant. Overview: A troubled teenager is plagued by visions of a large bunny rabbit that manipulates him to commit a series of crimes, after narrowly escaping a bizarre accident. Genres: Drama, Thriller, Science Fiction, Mystery. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Kill Bill Vol. 1 2003 Go for the kill Director: Quentin Tarantino. Cast: Uma Thurman, Lucy Liu, David Carradine, Michael Madsen, Daryl Hannah, Vivica A. Fox, Michael Parks, Chiaki Kuriyama, Sonny Chiba, Julie Dreyfus, Jun Kunimura, Kazuki Kitamura, Akaji Maro, Chia Hui Liu, Ambrosia Kelley. Overview: An assassin is shot at the altar by her ruthless employer, Bill, and other members of their assassination circle. But "The Bride" lives to plot her vengeance. Setting out for some payback, she makes a death list and hunts down those who wronged her, saving Bill for last. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Countries: Japan, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 51m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 Amores perros 2000 Love. Betrayal. Death. Director: Alejandro González Iñárritu. Cast: Gael García Bernal, Vanessa Bauche, Goya Toledo, Alvaro Guerrero, Emilio Echevarría, Jorge Salinas, Rodrigo Murray, Humberto Busto, Gerardo Campbell, Rosa María Bianchi, Dunia Saldívar, Adriana Barraza, José Sefami, Lourdes Echevarría, Marco Pérez. Overview: In Mexico City the lives and stories of three people become tied up in an intense Oscar winning film. Valeria and El Chivo have one thing in common: their souls stimulate them towards a relationship with their dogs. Amores Perros is the first film in Iñárritu's "Death Trilogy". Genres: Drama, Foreign, Indie, Thriller. Country: Mexico. Runtime: 2h 33m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 The Killing 1956 Director: Stanley Kubrick. Cast: Sterling Hayden, Coleen Gray, Vince Edwards, Jay C. Flippen, Elisha Cook Jr., Marie Windsor, Ted de Corsia, Joe Sawyer, James Edwards, Timothy Carey, Joe Turkel, Jay Adler, Kola Kwariani, Tito Vuolo, Dorothy Adams. Overview: The Killing was Stanley Kubrick’s first film with a professional cast and the first time he achieved public recognition as the unconventional director he’s now known for. The story is of ex-prisoners who plan to set up a racetrack so they can live a life without monetary worries. One of the more exceptional films of the 1950’s. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller, Film Noir. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 25m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 Trainspotting 1996 Choose life. Director: Danny Boyle. Cast: Ewan McGregor, Ewen Bremner, Jonny Lee Miller, Kevin McKidd, Kelly Macdonald, Peter Mullan, James Cosmo, Eileen Nicholas, Susan Vidler, Pauline Lynch, Shirley Henderson, Stuart McQuarrie, Irvine Welsh, Robert Carlyle. Overview: Renton is living the dream and that dream is Heroin. As Renton struggles with the agony and ecstasy of his life we follow him and his increasingly unstable mates. Drinking, fighting, drugs, sex and the most disgusting toilet in Scotland. Choose Trainspotting. Genres: Drama, Comedy, Foreign. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 34m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 The Graduate 1967 This is Benjamin. He's a little worried about his future. Director: Mike Nichols. Cast: Anne Bancroft, Dustin Hoffman, Katharine Ross, Murray Hamilton, Buck Henry, Brian Avery, Walter Brooke, William Daniels. Overview: Recent college graduate Benjamin Braddock is trapped into an affair with Mrs. Robinson, who happens to be the wife of his father's business partner and then finds himself falling in love with her teenage daughter, Elaine. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels 1998 A Disgrace to Criminals Everywhere. Director: Guy Ritchie. Cast: Jason Flemyng, Dexter Fletcher, Nick Moran, Jason Statham, Steven Mackintosh, Vinnie Jones, Sting, Nicholas Rowe, Nick Marcq, Charles Forbes, Lenny McLean, Peter McNicholl, P.H. Moriarty, Frank Harper, Steve Sweeney. Overview: A fast paced British comedy about four friends who need to make a lot of cash quick after losing a sketchy poker match. Lots of British humor, off the wall characters, and a line up of unbelievable scenes put director Guy Ritchie on the map. Genres: Action, Comedy, Crime, Drama, Foreign, Indie, Thriller. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 The Lion in Winter 1968 Director: Anthony Harvey. Cast: Peter O'Toole, Katharine Hepburn, Anthony Hopkins, John Castle, Nigel Terry, Timothy Dalton, Jane Merrow, Nigel Stock, Kenneth Ives, O.Z. Whitehead. Overview: 1183 AD: King Henry II's three sons all want to inherit the throne, but he won't commit to a choice. They and his wife variously plot to force him. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 14m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 The War Game 1965 BBC TV's film about a nuclear attack on Britain directed by Peter Watkins. Director: Peter Watkins. Cast: Michael Aspel. Overview: The War Game is a fictional, worst-case-scenario docu-drama about nuclear war and its aftermath in and around a typical English city. Genre: Drama. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 48m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 The Return 2003 Возвращение Director: Andrei Zvyagintsev. Cast: Vladimir Garin, Ivan Dobronravov, Konstantin Lavronenko, Natalya Vdovina. Overview: It tells the story of two Russian boys whose father suddenly returns home after a 12-year absence. He takes the boys on a holiday to a remote island on a lake that turns into a test of manhood of almost mythic proportions. It won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival. Genres: Adventure, Drama, Foreign. Country: Russian Federation. Runtime: 1h 45m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 Séance on a Wet Afternoon 1964 Director: Bryan Forbes. Cast: Kim Stanley, Richard Attenborough, Marian Spencer, Judith Donner. Overview: Myra, a self-styled psychic in London, concocts a scheme to gain celebrity. Genres: Crime, Drama, Horror. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 55m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Fitzcarraldo 1982 Director: Werner Herzog. Cast: Klaus Kinski, José Lewgoy, Miguel Ángel Fuentes, Paul Hittscher, Claudia Cardinale. Overview: The story of Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald, an extremely determined man who intends to build an opera house in the middle of a jungle. Genres: Action, Adventure, Drama, Foreign. Countries: Germany, Peru. Runtime: 2h 38m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 A Woman Under the Influence 1974 Director: John Cassavetes. Cast: Peter Falk, Gena Rowlands, Fred Draper, Lady Rowlands, Katherine Cassavetes, Matthew Laborteaux. Overview: Peter Falk is a blue collar man trying to deal with his wife's mental instability. He fights to keep a semblance of normality in the face of her bizarre behavior, but when her actions affect their children, he has her committed Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 35m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 Magnolia 1999 Things fall down. People look up. And when it rains, it pours. Director: Paul Thomas Anderson. Cast: Julianne Moore, William H. Macy, John C. Reilly, Tom Cruise, Philip Baker Hall, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Jason Robards, Alfred Molina, Melora Walters, Michael Bowen, Jeremy Blackman, Emmanuel Johnson, Melinda Dillon, April Grace, Felicity Huffman. Overview: A film about lonely and unhappy people in California played out in emotion-filled episodes of star-packed drama. In the search of love, the main character reencounters the traumas of her past. Genres: Drama, Indie, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 3h 8m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 Before Sunset 2004 What if you had a second chance with the one that got away? Director: Richard Linklater. Cast: Ethan Hawke, Julie Delpy, Vernon Dobtcheff, Louise Lemoine Torrès, Rodolphe Pauly, Mariane Plasteig, Diabolo, Denis Evrard, Albert Delpy, Marie Pillet. Overview: Nine years ago two strangers met by chance and spent a night in Vienna that ended before sunrise. They are about to meet for the first time since. Now they have one afternoon to find out if they belong together. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 17m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 Crimes and Misdemeanors 1989 Director: Woody Allen. Cast: Woody Allen, Martin Landau, Anjelica Huston, Joanna Gleason, Alan Alda, Sam Waterston, Jerry Orbach. Overview: A New York doctor resorts to desperate measures when his long-term mistress threatens to reveal their affair if he doesn't marry her. When his brother offers to eliminate the situation, he is faced with a moral dilemma. Meanwhile, Clifford Stern is commissioned to make a portrait of successful TV producer and brother-in-law Lester, who represents everything that Clifford despises. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 47m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 Sling Blade 1996 A simple man. A difficult choice. Director: Billy Bob Thornton. Cast: Billy Bob Thornton, Robert Duvall, Dwight Yoakam, J.T. Walsh, Lucas Black, Natalie Canerday, John Ritter. Overview: Karl Childers is a mentally disabled man who has been in the custody of the state mental hospital since the age of 12 for killing his mother and her lover. Although thoroughly institutionalized, Karl is deemed fit to be released into the outside world. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 15m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 The Straight Story 1999 Director: David Lynch. Cast: Richard Farnsworth, Sissy Spacek, Jane Galloway Heitz, Joseph A. Carpenter, Donald Wiegert, Tracey Maloney, Dan Flannery, Ed Grennan, Jack Walsh, Gil Pearson, Barbara June Patterson, Everett McGill, James Cada, Sally Wingert, Barbara Kingsley. Overview: "The Straight Story" chronicles a trip made by 73-year-old Alvin Straight from Laurens, Iowa, to Mt. Zion, Wisconsin, in 1994 while riding a lawn mower. The man undertook his strange journey to mend his relationship with his ill, estranged, 75-year-old brother Lyle. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 Papillon 1973 Director: Franklin J. Schaffner. Cast: Steve McQueen, Dustin Hoffman, Woodrow Parfrey, Robert Deman, Anthony Zerbe, Victor Jory, Don Gordon, Bill Mumy. Overview: A man befriends a fellow criminal as the two of them begin serving their sentence on a dreadful prison island, which inspires the man to plot his escape. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 25m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 Dawn of the Dead 1978 When there's no more room in hell, the dead will walk the earth. Director: George A. Romero. Cast: David Emge, Ken Foree, Scott H. Reiniger, Gaylen Ross, David Crawford, David Early, Richard France, Howard Smith, Daniel Dietrich, Fred Baker, James A. Baffico, Rod Stouffer, Jese Del Gre, Clayton McKinnon, John Rice. Overview: During an ever-growing epidemic of zombies that have risen from the dead, two Philadelphia SWAT team members, a traffic reporter, and his television-executive girlfriend seek refuge in a secluded shopping mall. Genre: Horror. Countries: Italy, United States of America, Japan. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: NR. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 A Man for All Seasons 1966 Director: Fred Zinnemann. Cast: Paul Scofield, Wendy Hiller, Leo McKern, Robert Shaw, Orson Welles, Susannah York, Nigel Davenport, John Hurt, Corin Redgrave, Colin Blakely, Cyril Luckham, Jack Gwillim, Thomas Heathcote, Vanessa Redgrave. Overview: A Man for All Seasons is the filmed version of the life of Thomas More. An English man comes to Sir Thomas More to ask if he can divorce his wife since King Henry VIII has made it illegal. Sir Tomas More stands up in opposition to the King even though he knows he’s risking his own life. An award winning film from 1966. Genres: Drama, Foreign, History. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 Mulholland Drive 2001 Director: David Lynch. Cast: Naomi Watts, Laura Harring, Ann Miller, Dan Hedaya, Justin Theroux, Robert Forster, Lori Heuring, Brent Briscoe, Katharine Towne, Chad Everett, Scott Coffey. Overview: After a car wreck on the winding Mulholland Drive renders a woman amnesic, she and a perky Hollywood-hopeful search for clues and answers across Los Angeles in a twisting venture beyond dreams and reality. Genres: Crime, Drama, Indie, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 Chimes at Midnight 1965 Campanadas a medianoche Director: Orson Welles. Cast: Orson Welles, Jeanne Moreau, Margaret Rutherford, John Gielgud, Marina Vlady, Walter Chiari, Michael Aldridge, Tony Beckley, Jeremy Rowe, Norman Rodway, Keith Baxter, Alan Webb, Fernando Rey, José Nieto, Andrew Faulds. Overview: Chimes at Midnight is an independently produced European film from director Orson Welles. The film is based on the play Henry IV by William Shakespeare. Genres: Comedy, Drama, History. Countries: Switzerland, Spain, France. Runtime: 1h 57m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 Once 2006 Director: John Carney. Cast: Glen Hansard, Markéta Irglová, Hugo Walsh, Gerard Hendrick, Alaistair Foley, Geoff Minogue, Bill Hodnett, Danuse Ktrestova, Darren Healy, Mal Whyte, Marcella Plunkett. Overview: The Guy is a Dublin guitarist/singer-songwriter who makes a living by fixing vacuum cleaners in his Dad's Hoover repair shop by day, and singing and playing for money on the Dublin streets by night. The Girl is a Czech who plays piano when she gets a chance, and does odd jobs by day and takes care of her mom and her daughter by night. Genres: Drama, Indie, Music, Romance. Country: Ireland. Runtime: 1h 25m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 Dances with Wolves 1990 Inside everyone is a frontier waiting to be discovered. Director: Kevin Costner. Cast: Kevin Costner, Mary McDonnell, Graham Greene, Rodney A. Grant, Floyd Red Crow Westerman, Tantoo Cardinal, Robert Pastorelli, Charles Rocket, Maury Chaykin, Jimmy Herman, Nathan Lee Chasing His Horse, Michael Spears, Jason R. Lone Hill, Tony Pierce, Doris Leader Charge. Overview: Wounded Civil War soldier John Dunbar tries to commit suicide -- and becomes a hero instead. As a reward, he's assigned to his dream post, a remote junction on the Western frontier, and soon makes unlikely friends with the local Sioux tribe. Genres: Adventure, Drama, Western. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 3h 1m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 Crash 2004 You think you know who you are. You have no idea. Director: Paul Haggis. Cast: Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Karina Arroyave, Dato Bakhtadze, Michael Peña, Loretta Devine, Jennifer Esposito, Brendan Fraser, Nona Gaye, Ken Garito, Terrence Howard, Ludacris, Thandie Newton, Yomi Perry. Overview: CRASH takes a provocative, unflinching look at the complexities of racial tolerance in contemporary America. Diving headlong into the diverse melting pot of post-9/11 Los Angeles, this compelling urban drama tracks the volatile intersections of a multi-ethnic cast of characters’ struggles to overcome their fears as they careen in and out of one another’s lives. Genres: Drama, Indie. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 Night of the Living Dead 1968 Director: George A. Romero. Cast: Duane Jones, Judith O'Dea, Karl Hardman, Marilyn Eastman, Keith Wayne, Judith Ridley, Kyra Schon, Charles Craig, S. William Hinzman, Bill 'Chilly Billy' Cardille, George A. Romero, Russell Streiner, John A. Russo. Overview: A group of people try to survive an attack of bloodthirsty zombies while trapped in a rural Pennsylvania farmhouse. Although not the first zombie film, Night of the Living Dead is the progenitor of the contemporary "zombie apocalypse" horror film, and it greatly influenced the modern pop-culture zombie archetype. Genres: Horror, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 36m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 Shaun of the Dead 2004 A Romantic Comedy. With Zombies. Director: Edgar Wright. Cast: Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, Kate Ashfield, Lucy Davis, Dylan Moran, Peter Serafinowicz, Penelope Wilton, Steve Emerson, Nicola Cunningham, Reece Shearsmith, Bill Nighy, Jessica Hynes. Overview: Shaun of the Dead is a humorous homage to Zombie movies from director Edgar Wright; an outrageous romantic comedy with zombies. Genres: Comedy, Foreign, Horror. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 35m. Rated: R. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
