#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/how-to-make-a-works-cited-page.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/practice/quiz-worksheet-making-a-works-cited-page.html
http://study.com/academy/course/developmental-college-composition.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/login.html?cta=bumper
http://study.com/academy/lesson/how-to-make-a-works-cited-page.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/how-to-make-a-works-cited-page.html#lessonsCarousel
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/how-to-make-a-works-cited-page.html&width=100&
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
How to Make a Works Cited Page - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: How to Make a Works Cited Page You will have to cite your sources properly whenever you borrow words or ideas for a paper. One part of proper citation is the Works Cited page. This lesson shows you how to put one together.  English 104: College Composition  /  English Courses Course Navigator How to Engage Readers by Picking and Developing an AppealNext Lesson  How to Make a Works Cited Page Chapter 4 /  Lesson 13   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Making a Works Cited Page Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: How to Engage Readers by Picking and Developing an Appeal 0:01 Avoiding Plagiarism 1:10 Works Cited 3:35 How to Construct Works… 5:52 How to Present Entries… 6:48 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 14,823 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses What is MLA Format? Parts of An Argument: Claims, Counterclaims, Reasons, and Evidence What is Theme in Literature? - Definition & Examples Essay Introduction: Write a Thesis and Capture Your Audience Point of View: First, Second & Third Person How to Avoid Plagiarism: When to Cite Sources How to Make In-Text Citations Types of Irony: Examples & Definitions How to Write an Outline What is a Preposition? - Definition, Uses & Examples Understanding Tone and Mood in a Reading Passage How to Write a Thesis Statement Writing: Main Idea, Thesis Statement & Topic Sentences Indirect Characterization: Definition & Examples What is Foreshadowing? - Types, Examples & Definitions What is a Plot Diagram? - Definition & Examples What Is a Bibliography and When Should I Write One? Third Person Omniscient Narrator: Definition & Examples What is Paraphrasing? - Definition & Examples Informative Essay: Definition, Examples & Structure AP English Literature: Help and Review ACT Prep: Practice & Study Guide AP English Literature: Homework Help Resource AP English Literature: Tutoring Solution PSAT Prep: Help and Review NMTA Essential Academic Skills Subtest Writing: Practice & Study Guide Romeo and Juliet by Shakespeare: Study Guide Shakespeare Study Guide College 101: College Readiness Remedial 11th Grade English THEA Test: Practice & Study Guide 11th Grade English: Credit Recovery Developmental College Composition English 101: English Literature English 102: American Literature GED Language Arts Part II: Writing College English Composition: Help and Review SAT Literature: Help and Review 11th Grade English: Help and Review GED Language Arts Part I: Reading Lesson Transcript Instructor: Amy Bonn Amy has taught college and law school writing courses and has a master's degree in English and a law degree. You will have to cite your sources properly whenever you borrow words or ideas for a paper. One part of proper citation is the Works Cited page. This lesson shows you how to put one together. Avoiding Plagiarism Plagiarism. You know you shouldn't do it, and you know you'd get into a lot of trouble if you did. But you might not be entirely sure what it is or how to avoid it. Luckily, there are clear rules to follow to ensure that you don't plagiarize your papers and that you always give credit where credit is due. Plagiarism occurs when a writer or speaker presents the words or ideas of another as if they were his or her own. Basically, someone has plagiarized if he or she writes something (or includes something in a speech) that comes from someone else, but doesn't give credit to that other person. Even if you don't mean to plagiarize, you may still end up doing it if you've presented words or ideas from a source without properly crediting that source. You can avoid plagiarism by being careful to cite your sources. A citation is a way of showing the source from which you've borrowed information that appears in your paper. There are a few different citation systems and the one you should use depends on what type of writing you're doing. Many humanities classes require that you use the citation system set forth by the Modern Language Association, or MLA. If you're told to create a Works Cited page (as opposed to, say, a References page) to cite your sources, then you know you'll be using the MLA system. Works Cited So, what is a Works Cited page? The name itself gives us a big clue. The phrase 'Works Cited' essentially means, 'Hey, here are the works that I cited in my paper.' A Works Cited page is a page (or pages) at the end of your paper that lists all of the sources that you used in your paper. It's not enough, though, to toss in random descriptions of the stuff you borrowed from, like 'My biology textbook' or 'Article I read online about evolution.' Instead, the MLA has set forth rules about what your list should look like and how you should cite different types of sources. Here's the general idea behind why you should create a Works Cited page. First, it would enable your reader to go find the source that you used and read it. You would present all of the information that would be required for your reader to find the specific source you used. Second, it's just the right thing to do. Think about it this way. If you had gone to all the trouble of becoming an expert on something and writing a book or article that other people want to use and rely on in their papers, wouldn't you want those people to give you credit for it? The guy who wrote the definitive book on shoelaces, for example, deserves to be known as the world's foremost expert on shoelaces, and if you use his book in writing your paper on shoelaces, then it's your duty to let your reader know where you got your information. So, there are two steps to properly citing all of the sources from which you've borrowed words or ideas in your paper. First, you must use in-text citations, or parenthetical citations, which are notations in the actual body of your paper providing short notes about the source you've used right after the information that you've borrowed from that source. So, if you've written, 'Shoelaces represent one of the greatest advancements of humankind,' and you've borrowed that idea from a book written by Joe Smith, you'd follow that sentence with a parenthetical citation that looks like this: (Smith 45), with 45 being the page number. Note that our parenthetical citation doesn't provide a whole lot of information - just a last name and a page number. That's where our second step comes in. Your Works Cited page is step two and it fills in all of the additional information about each and every source that you've used. One mistake that student writers sometimes make is listing sources in their Works Cited that they haven't used and cited in the body of their paper or, conversely, using and citing sources in the body of their paper, but not listing those sources in their Works Cited page. Don't make those mistakes. You could get hit with a plagiarism charge and/or lose points. You might also hurt our shoelace expert's feelings. How to Construct Works Cited Entries Let's take a look at what a Works Cited entry might look like. Let's use the example of Smith's book about shoelaces. The MLA has set out specific rules about how to put together a Works Cited entry and an entry for a book would look like this: Smith, Joe. Shoelaces: A Brief History. New York: Random, 2010. Print. Note that we present the author's last name before his first and then a period. We then present the title of the book in italics, followed by a period. Next is the name of the city in which the book was published, followed by a colon and then a shortened version of the name of the publishing company and a comma. Then put the year of the most recent printing of the book, followed by a period. Follow that with the word 'Print' for a print book, as opposed to an online book. Close with a period. The city of publication, publishing company, and year of publication can be found on the book's title page and copyright page. When it comes to Works Cited pages, the details matter, so make sure that you follow the MLA guidelines for each entry. (Note that the MLA publishes the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers. This book provides detailed formats and examples so that you can cite your papers correctly.) Let's look at another example. Let's say that you've used an article from an online magazine as a source and you need to include an entry for it on your Works Cited page. Here's what that type of entry would look like: Washington, Marcus. 'Shoelaces and You.' Aglets Daily. Publishing Memes, Inc., 3 May 2013. Web. 12 May 2013. × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Note that the entry starts with the author's last and first names and a period, followed by the title of the article and a period in quotation marks. Next comes the italicized title of the online magazine and another period. This is followed by the name of the publisher, a comma, and the date that the article was published and a period. Next comes the word 'Web,' followed by a period, to indicate that the publishing medium was online. Finally, you'll put the date that you accessed the source. Close with a period. Again, you'll want to use either the MLA handbook or another reliable guide to MLA citation as you construct your Works Cited page to ensure that you put together each entry correctly. Many writing textbooks include MLA citation guides, and there are some reliable Internet sources that you can check out, as well. These guides will show you how to put together entries for all types of sources, including periodicals and a variety of online publications. How to Present Entries on the Page In addition to knowing what goes into a Works Cited entry for each source you use, you'll need to know how to put those entries on the page. Here are some basic rules: To title your list, put the words Works Cited at the top of a new page at the end of your paper. Capitalize the 'W' and the 'C' and don't underline the words or put them in bold or italic font. Don't use a larger font size for the words, either. Alphabetize your entries. Usually, you'll be using the author's last name to determine how to order your entries, but if there is no author's name provided for a particular source, you might be using the name of the source's editor or of the organization that put out the source or a shortened version of the title of the work. Double space the entire Works Cited page, with no extra spaces between separate source entries. Use reverse indentation for each source. In other words, you'll be doing the opposite of what you do to indent a paragraph. You won't indent the first line of an entry, but you will indent each subsequent line. Lesson Summary Using a Works Cited page is an important part of preventing plagiarism, or the presentation of words or ideas of another as if they were your own. Many humanities classes require that you use the MLA citation system to cite your sources. A citation shows the source from which you've borrowed information that appears in your paper. The Works Cited page itself is a page at the end of your paper that lists all of the sources that you used in that paper. You'll use in-text parenthetical citations as well to properly cite your sources. You should use either the MLA handbook or another reliable guide to MLA citation as you construct your Works Cited page to ensure that you put together each entry correctly. To construct your Works Cited page correctly, be sure to properly title the page at the top, alphabetize your entries, double space the entire page, and use reverse indentation for each entry. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the English 104: College Composition page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Professors and Institutions Need to Care More About Their Students Are Tenured Professors Neglecting Their Graduate Students? Should Professors and Students Be Friends? Should Professors Be Able to Assign Their Own Textbooks? What to Look for When Selecting Professors What's More Important for Professors: Higher Degrees or Real World Experience? Do Entitled Students Impact Professors? How to Ask Your Professors for a Job Recommendation Professors and Copyright Experts Urge Academics to Reclaim Fair Use Should You Rely on Rate My Professor To Make Your College Decision? What Is a Content Writer? Minneapolis Careers: Overview of Hot Careers in Minneapolis, MN Becoming a Certified Bookkeeper: Step-by-Step Career Guide New York City Natural Health School Plantation FL City Information and Higher Education Facts Engineering Psychology Career Info Job Duties and Requirements Medical Assisting College in Rhode Island Bachelor of Business Administration BBA Degree Overview × Course Navigator  Back To Course English 104: College Composition 8 chapters | 79 lessons 1 - Conventions in Writing: Grammar Go to Conventions in Writing: Grammar 2 - Conventions in Writing: Usage Go to Conventions in Writing: Usage 3 - How to Revise an Essay Go to How to Revise an Essay 4 - Using Source Materials What Is a Bibliography and When Should I Write One? 6:55 How to Avoid Plagiarism: When to Cite Sources 5:35 How to Read Citations in Texts and Bibliographies 6:30 Journal Article Citations 5:33 Citations from Authored Books, Edited Books and Revised Books 6:11 Citations from Magazines 4:19 How to Cite Online Sources 4:47 How to Use Reference Material in Your Writing 7:28 How to Make In-Text Citations 6:42 What is MLA Format? 7:48 How to Format APA Citations 6:11 What Is the Chicago Citation Style? 4:57 How to Make a Works Cited Page 7:39 Go to Using Source Materials 5 - Parts of an Essay Go to Parts of an Essay 6 - Essay Writing Go to Essay Writing 7 - Reading and Understanding Essays Go to Reading and Understanding Essays 8 - Composition Best Practices: Theory and Application Go to Composition Best Practices: Theory and Application Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
