#ThisURL#
http://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/business-technology/our-insights/big-data-the-next-frontier-for-innovation
#SubURL#
http://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/marketing-and-sales/our-insights/from-touchpoints-to-journeys-seeing-the-world-as-customers-do
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/pharmaceuticals-and-medical-products/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/global-themes/india
http://www.mckinsey.com/quarterly/overview
http://www.mckinsey.com/about-us/new-at-mckinsey-blog/responding-to-the-global-refugee-crisis
https://www.mckinsey.com/user-registration/forgot-password
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/aerospace-and-defense/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/terms-of-use
http://www.mckinsey.com/industries/semiconductors/our-insights
http://www.mckinsey.com/careers/your-growth-at-mckinsey
https://twitter.com/McKinsey
https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/id674902075?mt=8
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mckinsey.mckinseyinsights
https://www.youtube.com/mckinsey
https://www.facebook.com/mckinsey
https://www.linkedin.com/company/mckinsey-&-company
#Title#
Big data: The next frontier for innovation, competition, and productivity | McKinsey & Company
#Content#
Skip to main content Toggle Menu McKinsey & Company Home What's new at McKinsey? Responding to the global refugee crisis Find a location Sign in Toggle search field McKinsey & Company Home Industries Industries Advanced Electronics Aerospace & Defense Automotive & Assembly Chemicals Consumer Packaged Goods Electric Power & Natural Gas Financial Services Healthcare Systems & Services High Tech Infrastructure Media & Entertainment Metals & Mining Oil & Gas Paper & Forest Products Pharmaceuticals & Medical Products Private Equity & Principal Investors Public Sector Retail Semiconductors Social Sector Telecommunications Travel, Transport & Logistics Read our featured insights Business Functions Business Functions Analytics Business Technology Digital Implementation Learning Programs for Clients Marketing & Sales Operations Organization Recovery & Transformation Services Risk Strategy & Corporate Finance Sustainability & Resource Productivity Read our featured insights Global Themes Global Themes Timely Topics Regions Digital Disruption Employment and Growth Leadership Long-term Capitalism Urbanization Winning in Emerging Markets Women Matter Americas Asia-Pacific China Europe India Middle East and Africa Read our featured insights Careers Careers Overview Our work Our people and values Your growth at McKinsey Your career Join us FAQs About us About us Overview Who we are What we do Media center Alumni New at McKinsey blog Featured McKinsey Global Institute Our mission is to help leaders in multiple sectors develop a deeper understanding of the global economy. McKinsey Quarterly Our flagship business publication has been defining and informing the senior-management agenda since 1964. McKinsey Solutions Our solutions help clients generate the insights needed to make better, faster decisions. Toggle search field Find a location Sign In Search Report - McKinsey Global Institute - May 2011 Big data: The next frontier for innovation, competition, and productivity By James Manyika, Michael Chui, Brad Brown, Jacques Bughin, Richard Dobbs, Charles Roxburgh, Angela Hung Byers Download Executive Summary (PDF–922KB) Full Report (PDF–6MB) Kindle (MOBI–4MB) eBook (EPUB–3MB) Article Actions Share this article on LinkedIn Share this article on Twitter Share this article on Facebook Email this article Big data will become a key basis of competition, underpinning new waves of productivity growth, innovation, and consumer surplus—as long as the right policies and enablers are in place. The amount of data in our world has been exploding, and analyzing large data sets—so-called big data—will become a key basis of competition, underpinning new waves of productivity growth, innovation, and consumer surplus, according to research by MGI and McKinsey's Business Technology Office. Leaders in every sector will have to grapple with the implications of big data, not just a few data-oriented managers. The increasing volume and detail of information captured by enterprises, the rise of multimedia, social media, and the Internet of Things will fuel exponential growth in data for the foreseeable future. Interactive Deep analytical talent: Where are they now? Research by MGI and McKinsey's Business Technology Office examines the state of digital data and documents the significant value that can potentially be unlocked. Open interactive popup MGI studied big data in five domains—healthcare in the United States, the public sector in Europe, retail in the United States, and manufacturing and personal-location data globally. Big data can generate value in each. For example, a retailer using big data to the full could increase its operating margin by more than 60 percent. Harnessing big data in the public sector has enormous potential, too. If US healthcare were to use big data creatively and effectively to drive efficiency and quality, the sector could create more than $300 billion in value every year. Two-thirds of that would be in the form of reducing US healthcare expenditure by about 8 percent. In the developed economies of Europe, government administrators could save more than €100 billion ($149 billion) in operational efficiency improvements alone by using big data, not including using big data to reduce fraud and errors and boost the collection of tax revenues. And users of services enabled by personal-location data could capture $600 billion in consumer surplus. The research offers seven key insights. 1. Data have swept into every industry and business function and are now an important factor of production, alongside labor and capital. We estimate that, by 2009, nearly all sectors in the US economy had at least an average of 200 terabytes of stored data (twice the size of US retailer Wal-Mart's data warehouse in 1999) per company with more than 1,000 employees. 2. There are five broad ways in which using big data can create value. First, big data can unlock significant value by making information transparent and usable at much higher frequency. Second, as organizations create and store more transactional data in digital form, they can collect more accurate and detailed performance information on everything from product inventories to sick days, and therefore expose variability and boost performance. Leading companies are using data collection and analysis to conduct controlled experiments to make better management decisions; others are using data for basic low-frequency forecasting to high-frequency nowcasting to adjust their business levers just in time. Third, big data allows ever-narrower segmentation of customers and therefore much more precisely tailored products or services. Fourth, sophisticated analytics can substantially improve decision-making. Finally, big data can be used to improve the development of the next generation of products and services. For instance, manufacturers are using data obtained from sensors embedded in products to create innovative after-sales service offerings such as proactive maintenance (preventive measures that take place before a failure occurs or is even noticed). 00:00 Podcast Distilling value and driving productivity from mountains of data Michael Chui discusses how the scale and scope of companies' access to data is changing the way they do business. 3. The use of big data will become a key basis of competition and growth for individual firms. From the standpoint of competitiveness and the potential capture of value, all companies need to take big data seriously. In most industries, established competitors and new entrants alike will leverage data-driven strategies to innovate, compete, and capture value from deep and up-to-real-time information. Indeed, we found early examples of such use of data in every sector we examined. 4. The use of big data will underpin new waves of productivity growth and consumer surplus. For example, we estimate that a retailer using big data to the full has the potential to increase its operating margin by more than 60 percent. Big data offers considerable benefits to consumers as well as to companies and organizations. For instance, services enabled by personal-location data can allow consumers to capture $600 billion in economic surplus. 5. While the use of big data will matter across sectors, some sectors are set for greater gains. We compared the historical productivity of sectors in the United States with the potential of these sectors to capture value from big data (using an index that combines several quantitative metrics), and found that the opportunities and challenges vary from sector to sector. The computer and electronic products and information sectors, as well as finance and insurance, and government are poised to gain substantially from the use of big data. 6. There will be a shortage of talent necessary for organizations to take advantage of big data. By 2018, the United States alone could face a shortage of 140,000 to 190,000 people with deep analytical skills as well as 1.5 million managers and analysts with the know-how to use the analysis of big data to make effective decisions. 7. Several issues will have to be addressed to capture the full potential of big data. Policies related to privacy, security, intellectual property, and even liability will need to be addressed in a big data world. Organizations need not only to put the right talent and technology in place but also structure workflows and incentives to optimize the use of big data. Access to data is critical—companies will increasingly need to integrate information from multiple data sources, often from third parties, and the incentives have to be in place to enable this. Article Actions Share this article on LinkedIn Share this article on Twitter Share this article on Facebook Email this article More from the McKinsey Global Institute Report - McKinsey Global Institute The social economy: Unlocking value and productivity through social technologies July 2012 – The most powerful applications of social technologies in the global economy are largely untapped. By using social technologies, companies can raise the productivity of knowledge workers by 20 to 25 percent. Report - McKinsey Global Institute Internet matters: The Net's sweeping impact on growth, jobs, and prosperity May 2011 – The Internet accounts for a significant and growing portion of global GDP. Internet-related consumption and expenditure, if measured as a sector, is now bigger than agriculture or energy. Report - McKinsey Global Institute The great transformer: The impact of the Internet on economic growth and prosperity October 2011 – While large enterprises and national economies have reaped major benefits from this technological revolution, individual consumers and small, upstart entrepreneurs have been some of the greatest beneficiaries from the Internet's empowering influence. Most Popular Article - McKinsey Quarterly The economic essentials of digital strategy A supply-and-demand guide to digital disruption. Article Here comes the modern Chinese consumer Article From touchpoints to journeys: Seeing the world as customers do Article Renewable energy: Evolution, not revolution Interview - McKinsey Quarterly Staying one step ahead at Pixar: An interview with Ed Catmull Debate - McKinsey Quarterly Leading in the digital age Email this article Required fields are marked with an asterisk (*). ERROR Sorry something went wrong. Please try again YOUR EMAIL* RECIPIENTS* Send me a copy Sign in Please sign in to print or download this article. Email Password Forgot password? Don't have a profile? Create one. Please create a profile to print or download this article. Create a profile to get full access to our articles and reports, including those by McKinsey Quarterly and the McKinsey Global Institute, and to subscribe to our newsletters and email alerts. Create a profile McKinsey & Company Logo Sign up for email alerts Select topics and stay current with our latest insights Email address LinkedIn Twitter Facebook YouTube RSS Contact us FAQ Privacy policy Terms of use Local language information McKinsey Insights - Get our latest thinking on your iPhone, iPad, or Android device. © 1996-2016 McKinsey & Company McKinsey Insights App Our latest thinking at your fingertips. Anytime. Anywhere. Download the app or continue to site
