#ThisURL#
http://study.com/
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/irony-in-romeo-juliet-dramatic-verbal-situational.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/maria-montessori-theory-method-quotes.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/academy/practice/quiz-worksheet-orthographic-drawing.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/creating-supporting-an-argument.html
http://study.com/academy/popular/homeschooling-in-mississippi.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/studycom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Study.com | Take Online Courses. Earn College Credit. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Watch & Learn Our short and fun videos, taught by the world's best teachers, help students easily master any subject. Learn More Create an Account to access video lessons, courses, study tools, guides & more. What best describes you? Student Parent Teacher Other Start Free Trial Already have an account? Login here Select a goal to discover courses Study Select a subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Other Improve Grades Select a grade level College High School Middle School Other Test Prep Select an exam SAT ACT CLEP AP Other Earn Credit Learn More Thousands of video lessons in a variety of subjects Browse popular lessons by Subject Grade Level Math Courses Explore 800+ Math video lessons Science Courses Explore 2600+ Science video lessons Business Courses Explore 1400+ Business video lessons English Courses Explore 1600+ English video lessons Social Science Courses Explore 750+ Social Science video lessons History Courses Explore 1000+ History video lessons Psychology Courses Explore 700+ Psychology video lessons Test Prep Explore 630+ Test Prep video lessons Middle School Explore Middle School video lessons High School Explore High School video lessons College Explore College video lessons Graduate & Post-Graduate Explore Graduate & Post-Graduate video lessons Certificates Explore Certificate video lessons Adult Education Explore Adult Education video lessons Professional Development Explore Professional Development video lessons Teacher Certification Explore Teacher Certification video lessons View all subjects See why over 10 million visitors use Study.com Discover how we can help you: I am a Student I am a Teacher Recently added content The Invention of Writing Feral Children: Definition, Stories & Cases Obsidian: Definition, Properties & Uses Winston Smith in 1984: Character Traits & Analysis Bony Fish: Characteristics, Anatomy & Types The Woodwind Family: Instrument List & Overview Neoclassical Criminology: School & Theory What Is Consumer Education? - Definition & Importance Purchase Requisition: Definition & Process Text Lessons Huckleberry Finn Vocabulary Banana Facts: Lesson for Kids How to Use a Compass: Lesson for Kids The Affordable Care & Patient Protection Act: Key Provisions Irony in Romeo & Juliet: Dramatic, Verbal & Situational Of Mice and Men Chapter 5 Questions Veterans Day Bulletin Board Ideas Back to School Bulletin Board Ideas Articles Homeschooling in Nebraska Homeschooling in Mississippi Homeschooling in Kansas What is Asthma Educator Certification? PMP Certification Exam Preparation Courses Minnesota Science Standards Quizzes and Worksheets Quiz & Worksheet - The Mysteries of Udolpho Quiz & Worksheet - Archaism in Literature Quiz & Worksheet - Protecting the Environment as an... Quiz & Worksheet - Good vs. Evil in Beowulf Quiz & Worksheet - Predestination Theory Quiz & Worksheet - Polygon Area & Trigonometry Courses NYSTCE Academic Literacy Skills Test (ALST): Practice &... CGAP Exam Study Guide - Certified Government Auditing... Accuplacer Reading Comprehension Test: Practice & Study... Virginia Communication & Literacy Assessment (VCLA):... Courses Accuplacer Sentence Skills Test: Practice & Study Guide PAX RN: Practice & Study Guide RICA Exam: Test Prep & Practice NAVLE Study Guide & Practice Chapters Gathering Information From Text Creating & Supporting an Argument Correct Writing & Grammar Conventions Crafting & Structuring Texts Argument & Source Evaluation Unique Characteristics of Human Resources Management Previous Next You can even earn college credit online! Transferable to over 2,000 schools 1Complete a course 2Take an exam 3Earn transferable college credit We've made earning real college credit simple — with no red tape to transfer credit units to over 2,000 colleges and universities. Our courses help unlock your potential and bring affordable college credit to millions of students. Learn more About Study.com We believe that everyone has the right to an affordable, quality education. As a society, we uphold the notion that it's a good thing – the very basis of hope and the key to the promise of upward mobility. But brutally high fees and an educational system slow to realize that everyone learns differently have created a paradox. Learning should be fun and accessible to everyone, but in many cases, it simply isn't. At Study.com, we aim to deliver a better way to learn – one that lets you learn what you want, the way you want, and in a way you can afford. We want to empower you to become that better version of yourself education is supposed to allow. Learn More About Us » Ultimate College and Career Guide Over 50,000 articles to help you make important college and career decisions Programs & Schools Career Planning School Finder Get connected with leading universities and colleges to earn your degree 1 What subject are you interested in? Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts 2 What type of degree are you looking for? Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma 3 Where would you like to attend class? Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: State: Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Programs Degrees Biological Sciences Business Communications Computer Science Education Engineering Liberal Arts Medical and Health School Funding Academic Scholarships Schools Top Schools by Subject Art and Design Schools Business Schools Engineering Schools Information Technology Schools Legal and Law Enforcement Schools Liberal Arts and General Studies Schools Mechanic and Technician Schools Medical and Science Schools Teaching Schools School Reviews University Reviews Top Schools By State School Finder Get connected with leading universities and colleges to earn your degree 1 What subject are you interested in? Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts 2 What type of degree are you looking for? Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma 3 Where would you like to attend class? Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: State: Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Careers Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region College Counseling Videos Career Advancement Job Interviewing Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé Videos Job Search Other Courses OpenCourseWare Accounting Courses Business Courses Computer Courses Computer Networking Courses Astronomy Courses Biology Courses Adult Literacy Courses Foreign Language Courses Explore our featured college and career articles Newest Articles Recently Updated Most Popular Foreign Languages Psychology Course in Tulsa, OK with School and Degree Info The Tulsa area has a small number of universities that offer psychology degree programs. Learn about the degree programs, admission info and program requirements at three schools within 30... Mechanical Engineer Education Requirements and Career Info Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a mechanical engineer. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and licensure to... How to Become a Doctor: Step-by-Step Guide Learn how to become a doctor. Research the education, career and licensing requirements, along with learning what experience is required for starting a career as a doctor. Advertising Schools in Los Angeles, CA with Course Descriptions The Los Angeles area has six schools that offer advertising programs. Learn about the degree programs, admission info and program requirements for two of these schools within 35 miles of... Should I Become a Real Estate Lawyer? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Become an Elevator Technician: Career and Training Requirements Anesthesiologist: Education Requirements and Career Information What Does it Take to Be a Mechanic? Should I Be a Software Engineer? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Pasadena Art Colleges with Program and Course Info Nursing Administration Degree Programs in Grand Rapids, MI Top School with a Degree in E-Commerce Management - Seattle, WA Students looking to pursue a degree related to e-commerce can enroll at Highline College in Washington, which offers an associate's degree... Seattle Careers: Top Growing Career Opportunities in Seattle, WA If a high quality of life and scenic beauty are your cup of tea, Seattle, Washington, is a great place to work and live. Read on for more... Online Degrees in Corporate Communications with Course Information Find out about online degrees in corporate communications and in which training programs they're most commonly offered. Get course... How to Become a Farmer: Education and Career Roadmap Learn how to become a farmer. Research the common educational requirements, training information and experience required for starting a... Online Bridal Consultant Certification and Certificate Programs Become a Military Doctor: Step-by-Step Career Guide Software Developer: Educational Requirements & Career Info Benefits of an MBA in Finance: Overview for Aspiring Students Agricultural Business Manager: Job Description & Career Info Dermatologist: Job Info & Career Requirements Become an Air Force Pilot: Step-by-Step Career Guide Human Resources Assistant: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Get your GED Online It is not possible to take the General Educational Development (GED) test online. An approved proctor of the exam must follow strict... Entertainment Business Management Career College Diploma Program Summary According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, it is possible to be successful as an entertainment manager through experience alone. ... Meat Cutting Degrees Associate's programs in meat processing offer extensive training for those interested in the process of handling meat. Students in these... Associate of Fashion Design Degree Overview In an Associate of Fashion Design Program, students acquire the knowledge and skills needed to create clothing designs through traditional... Masters Degree in Worship Studies Program Information A master's degree program in worship studies can assist current professionals within the field or those without any prior worship... Dental Technician Training Bachelor of Science in Information Technology BSIT Computer Networking Security Degree Overview PsyD in Applied Behavior Analysis Degree Program Options Certified Compensation Professional CCP Certification and Training Info Confectionary Chef School Associate Degrees in Merchandising Program Overviews What Does IT Take to Be a Nurse BA in Film Studies Info on Bachelors Degree Programs TOEFL iBT: Test Prep and Practice Learn about the TOEFL iBT, the exam that assesses your English comprehension skills as a non-native English speaker. This... How to Become a Certified ESL Teacher Research the requirements to become a certified ESL teacher. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the... College English Classes and Degree Options Online Numerous colleges and universities offer online English classes and degree options. Keep reading to learn more about these... Chinese Language Course and Class Information The study of a foreign language is a requirement for almost all bachelor's degree programs. When used to meet this requirement,... English Courses Spanish 101:Beginning Spanish StudyCom Club Popular Content Courses Chapters Lessons More WEST Business & Marketing Education: Practice & Study Guide The chapters in this study guide cover all of the concepts included in the WEST Business and Marketing Education exam. Use these lessons and their accompanying quizzes... Business Communications: Help & Review CEOE Business Education: Practice & Study Guide High School Physics: Homework Help Resource AP English Literature Syllabus Resource & Lesson Plans This AP English Literature Syllabus Resource & Lesson Plans course is a fully developed resource to help you organize and teach AP English literature. You can easily adapt... McDougal Littell World History: Online Textbook Help How to Network College Algebra Remediation This remedial College Algebra course helps students catch up on algebra when they've fallen behind. The short, engaging video lessons make learning algebra topics your... CSET English Test: Practice and Study Guide Algebra 2 and Trig Textbook MTTC Marketing: Product Management By walking you through the basics of products and how best to market them, these video lessons will prepare you to ace the Marketing Education test of the MTTC. After... MTTC Marketing: Strategies & Segmentation CEOE Marketing: Professional Development ASVAB: The Human Endocrine System MTTC Marketing: Ethics & Social Responsibility MTTC Marketing: Researching, Collecting & Evaluating Data Study these video lessons to learn about the role and mechanics of data research in the field of marketing so you can pass the MTTC Marketing Education exam with flying colors. CEOE Marketing: Motivation in the Workplace ASVAB: Geology ASVAB: The Periodic Table NMTA Essential Academic Skills Writing: Pronouns & Antecedents CEOE Marketing: Professional Development These lessons show you the kinds of professional development topics that may be covered on the CEOE Marketing Education exam. Online career research tools and job application... CEOE Marketing: Product Management MTTC Marketing: International Business MTTC Marketing: Product Management ASVAB: Astronomy Segment Addition Postulate: Definition & Examples In this lesson, we will review the definition of the segment addition postulate. We will also look at examples to clearly illustrate how this concept works in the real-world. Organelles in Cells: Definition & Functions Maria Montessori: Theory, Method & Quotes What is a Lymph? - Definition & Anatomy Consecutive Integers: Definition & Formula Convict Leasing System: History & Explanation In the decades after the demise of slavery, Southern states sought to once again control black labor through the convict leasing system. Learn about the features and human... The Anthracite Coal Miners' Strike of 1902 The Battle of Iwo Jima in WW2: Facts & Casualties Who Was Johnny Appleseed? - Story & Facts Hawaiian Queen Liliuokalani: Quotes & Biography The Berlin Airlift: Definition, Summary & Facts The Berlin Airlift is considered one of the biggest aviation feats of all time. We'll look at its historical background, its impact, and consider some facts of the Airlift. The Battle of Midway: Definition, Summary, Facts & Significance The Tariff of 1828 The Presidential Election of 1932: Summary & Results Disney's Fantasia (1940): History & Characters Is PHP Hard to Learn? PHP is a programming language used for many applications and websites. In this article, we will address whether PHP is difficult to master and ways you can become... Compare and Contrast Lesson Plan LSAT Tips Water Cycle for Kids: Activities & Games LSAT Tips Quiz & Worksheet - Calculating the Volume of a Cube Check your understanding of calculating the volume of a cube in this quiz/worksheet combo. Practice questions assess your understanding of a cube and its properties. Quiz & Worksheet - Orthographic Drawing Quiz & Worksheet - Function of Organelles in Cells Quiz & Worksheet - Stages of Interphase Quiz & Worksheet - What Is a Medium in Art? Get access to video lessons, courses, study tools, guides & more. Get Started Create an Account to access video lessons, courses, study tools, guides & more. What best describes you? Student Parent Teacher Other Start Free Trial Already have an account? Login here Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support| Get Your School Listed Terms of Use | Privacy Policy| Resource Directory © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
