#ThisURL#
http://www.mtv.com/artists/katy-perry/
#SubURL#
http://www.mtv.com/artists/katy-perry/discography/2582399/
http://www.mtv.com/artists/video-franchise/stop-watch/4245/
http://www.vh1.com/video/play.jhtml?vid=1067540
http://www.mtvncareers.com/
http://www.mtv.com/artists/popular/
http://www.mtv.com/artists/katy-perry/music/
http://www.mtv.com/videos/?vid=988964
http://www.vh1.com/video/play.jhtml?vid=1058159
http://www.cmt.com/videos/?id=1052481
http://www.mtv.com/artists/lily-allen/
http://www.mtv.com/artists/kesha/
http://www.cmt.com/videos/?id=1052487
http://www.mtv.com/artists/katy-perry/discography/3011897/
http://www.mtv.com/sitewide/legal/user_content.jhtml
http://www.mtv.com/videos/?vid=1163224
http://artistsupport.mtv.com
http://www.cmt.com/videos/?id=1052477
http://www.cmt.com/videos/?id=1052478
http://artisttool.mtv.com/login/auth?signIn=true
http://www.cmt.com/news/1764350/country-ladies-sparkle-on-the-acm-red-carpet/
http://www.cmt.com/videos/?id=1048870
http://www.cmt.com/videos/?id=1049042
http://www.vh1.com/artists/collections/you-oughta-know/896671/
http://www.cmt.com/shows/
http://www.vh1.com/video/play.jhtml?vid=1165420
http://artisttool.mtv.com/home/
http://www.cmt.com/news/1764705/its-chris-stapletons-night-at-the-acm-awards/
http://www.cmt.com/news/
http://www.vh1.com/video/play.jhtml?vid=1093910
http://www.vh1.com/shows/
http://www.vh1.com/news/celebrity/
http://www.newnownext.com/dolly-parton-katy-perry-perform-jolene-coat-of-many-colors-at-acm-awards/04/2016/
http://www.logotv.com/shows/
http://www.newnownext.com/
http://srp.mtvn.com/sitefaq.html
http://artistsupport.mtv.com/home
http://www.newnownext.com/dolly-parton-and-katy-perry-to-duet-at-acm-awards/03/2016/
http://www.logotv.com/video/showall.jhtml
#Title#
Katy Perry | New Music And Songs |
#Content#
country code: \US Get the MTV Artists App and discover music wherever you are. Katy Perry About Katy Perry When Katy Perry was a fourth grader, her teacher asked the class to make a “vision board” — a collage of images cut out from magazines that represents the dreams and aspirations you hope to manifest in life. The year was 1993 and Selena had just won a Grammy Award, so nine-year-old Katy chose a photo of the young Latin pop singer holding her golden statuette. Fifteen years later, Perry has been nominated for her first Grammy Award in the “Best Female Pop Vocal Performance” category for her ubiquitous No. 1 single, "I Kissed a Girl," from her platinum Top 10 album One of the Boys, and has been chosen as this year’s My GRAMMY® Moment artist. Current sales check in at over 2 million albums and more than 13 million tracks, singles and mobile product globally. “I found my vision board when I moved apartments recently,” says Perry, now 24. “I knew where I wanted to be even as a young kid. I just didn’t know that if I put one foot in front of the other, I would actually get there someday.” Perry’s willful determination, not to mention her songwriting and vocal talent and larger-than-life charisma, have led to an astonishing year for the saucer-eyed, raven-haired pop starlet, who, with her cheeky sense of humor and sexy pin-up girl style, was “the breakthrough star of 2008” as Blender magazine put it in the issue that featured Perry on the cover. You could say it all started in April 2008 when Madonna told Ryan Seacrest that Perry’s “Ur So Gay” (off her November 2007 EP of the same name) — a withering kiss-off to a metrosexual ex — was her favorite song. “It may have been a small comment on her behalf, but it was a large comment in my world,” Perry recalls. “It was like a big boat leaving the dock and getting a champagne send-off.” Shortly after being anointed by the Queen of Pop, Perry released her debut single “I Kissed A Girl” — a provocative ode to the beauty of women that ruled radio over the summer of 2008, becoming an all-format hit and shooting to No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 where it stayed put for seven straight weeks and tied The Beatles’ Capitol Records record for weeks at No. 1. The video was nominated for five MTV Video Music Awards, including a nod for Perry for “Best New Artist” and became the No. 1 most viewed music video of 2008 on MySpace. A No. 1 airplay smash in 22 countries and the 2009 People’s Choice award winner for “Favorite Pop Song,” “I Kissed A Girl” has sold more than six million tracks worldwide. Its popularity also made Perry a ripe target for Fox News commentator Bill O’Reilly, who convened a panel of hand-wringing analysts to discuss the effect of the song on America’s impressionable youth. Perry was also voted “Best New Artist” by readers of Rolling Stone and PerezHilton.com On June 17, 2008, EMI Music released One of the Boys, a witty romp through Perry’s brightly colored world that showcases her sharp, candid lyrics, big voice, and feisty, girl-power swagger, as well as her appealing vulnerability on songs like her latest single, “Thinking Of You.” “I think people can appreciate a songwriter who shows different sides,” she says. “The whole angst thing is cool, but if that’s all you’ve got, it's just boring. Everything I write, whether it’s happy or sad, has a sense of humor to it.” Case in point: the album’s spunky, high-voltage second single “Hot N Cold,” which became Perry’s second No. 1 single and international hit, selling nearly three million digital tracks since its release. The eye-popping video, with its hilarious wedding theme, became the No. 2 most-viewed premiere of all time on MySpace, proving to armchair critics and naysayers that the success of this irrepressible young woman in the satin onesie and fishnets was no fluke. When Saturday Night Live spoofed her, it was official: Katy Perry was a bonafide cultural phenomenon. So why does Perry think that she’s connected with a mass audience when the road to stardom is littered with the failed dreams of aspiring wannabes? “Because I’m just myself,” she says, “and that’s all people want. People want to hear artists who are themselves, but who do interesting things and sing about them in an interesting way that maybe they have tried to conceive but couldn’t. I get a lot of girls who come up to me and say, ‘When I heard ‘Thinking of You,’ I felt that way to a T, but I never knew anyone who could put my feelings into words.’ I think that’s why people find me relatable. Plus, anybody can meet me. I’m not distant. I’m very much the same person I was before the hit singles. I just have a schedule for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.” Fans do seem to respond to Perry’s approachable girl-next-door quality (if the girl next door were a self-described “glamour ninja”), perhaps because it’s not an act. The middle child of two pastors, Perry grew up singing in church. “My dad would give me ten dollars, which is a lot of money when you’re nine, to sing at church, on tables at restaurants, at family functions, just about anywhere,” she says. Perry was raised on a strict diet of church music; “secular music,” as her mother called it, was “not allowed.” But one night during a slumber party, Perry happened upon a Queen record “and the heavens opened and saved me,” she says. “From then on, they have been my biggest influence. Their musicality and lyrics were so flamboyant and real. I’d never heard anything like it.” By the time she was 15, Perry was determined to pursue a path in music. She spent some time in Nashville working with professional songwriters — “these seasoned country music vets who had been writing songs for forever” — and honing her own songwriting skills. “Every single one of my songs is drawn 100 percent directly from my life.” At 17, Perry met legendary producer and songwriter Glen Ballard, who spent years guiding and developing her talent and songwriting. The strength of the songs and Perry’s full-throated voice captured the attention of Capitol Music Group, which signed her in Spring 2007. “I’ve been through a lot of highs and a lot of lows in this business,” Perry says. “Before I got signed, it was tough. I’d write a check for my rent and next to it, I’d write, ‘Please, God, please.’ But I didn’t jump off the Hollywood sign. Everything always works out for the best.” It’s a long way from being broke to stealing the show at the MTV Latin America “Los Premios Awards” (where Perry face-planted into a large pink cake) and hosting and performing at the MTV Europe Music Awards in Liverpool, England, which she did in November 2008, picking up the award for “Best New Act” in the process. Now Perry is gearing up for her first-ever international headlining tour, something she’s ready to tackle after spending a grueling summer on the Vans Warped Tour — a multi-band circus that one critic likened “the running of the bulls in Pamplona...minus the bulls, or the quaint Basque scenery.” “Warped was the hardest thing I’ve ever done,” Perry admits. “It was like being in the army, like GI Jane getting my ass kicked every single day, but now I know how to deal with any situation.” Music Best New Videos See All 1 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Keep It to Yourself (From CMT Crossroads: Katy Perry and Kacey Musgraves) 2 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Birthday (Official) 3 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Dark Horse ft. Juicy J 4 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Unconditionally (Official) 5 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Roar 6 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry The One That Got Away 7 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry E.T. 8 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Teenage Dream (Director's Cut) 9 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry California Gurls feat. Snoop Dogg 10 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Teenage Dream (From CMT Crossroads) 11 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Firework (From CMT Crossroads) 12 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Follow Your Arrow (From CMT Crossroads) 13 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Step Off (From CMT Crossroads) 14 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Here You Come Again (From CMT Crossroads) 15 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry I Can't Make You Love Me (From CMT Crossroads) 16 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Merry Go 'Round (From CMT Crossroads) 17 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Roar (From CMT Crossroads) 18 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Birthday (Lyric) 19 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Who You Love ft. Katy Perry 20 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Unconditionally (Music Video Preview) Interviews & Exclusives Best New Videos See All 1 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry CMT Music News: 2016 ACM Awards Recap 2 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry Performs At The 2015 Grammys 3 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry Performs At The 2015 Grammy's 4 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry Lights Up the Super Bowl Halftime Show with "Firework" performance 5 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry and Missy Elliott "Work It"! 6 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Lenny Kravitz and Katy Perry Get Steamy at the Super Bowl Halftime Show 7 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Nicki Minaj Checks In With Katy Perry 8 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry Accepts Award For Best Look 9 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry The Fabulous Life of Pop Divas: Katy Perry 10 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry And Riff Raff Pull A Britney And Justin On The Red Carpet 11 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry Wins Best Female Video 12 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry The Fabulous Life shows you Katy Perry's one in a million grill. 13 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Katy Perry Prefers Funny Guys with Special Talents 14 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry CMT Crossroads: Katy Perry and Kacey Musgraves Talk About Their Musical Influences 15 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry CMT Crossroads: Katy Perry and Kacey Musgraves Talk About Each Other's Music 16 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry CMT Crossroads: Katy Perry and Kacey Musgraves Discuss When They Began Playing Music 17 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry CMT Crossroads: Katy Perry and Kacey Musgraves Talk About Songwriting 18 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Everything You #NeedToKnow For The Third Week Of May 19 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry Song Of The Year Has Some Serious Competition 20 Now Playing Katy Perry Video Katy Perry John Mayer, Katy Perry Put Their Relationship 'Out There' On 'GMA' Hear more of on Spotify Top 10 songs in 90 seconds From Spotify Hear more of on Spotify Biography See All Pop When Katy Perry was a fourth grader, her teacher asked the class to make a “vision board” — a collage of images cut out from magazines that represents the dreams and aspirations you hope to manifest in life. The year was 1993 and Selena had just won a Grammy Award, so nine-year-old Katy chose a photo of the young Latin pop singer holding her golden statuette. Fifteen years later, Perry has been nominated for her first Grammy Award in the “Best Female Pop Vocal Performance” category for her ubiquitous No. 1 single, "I Kissed a Girl," from her platinum Top 10 album One of the Boys, and has been chosen as this year’s My GRAMMY® Moment artist. Current sales check in at over 2 million albums and more than 13 million tracks, singles and mobile product globally. “I found my vision board when I moved apartments recently,” says Perry, now 24. “I knew where I wanted to be even as a young kid. I just didn’t know that if I put one foot in front of the other, I would actually get there someday.” Perry’s willful determination, not to mention her songwriting and vocal talent and larger-than-life charisma, have led to an astonishing year for the saucer-eyed, raven-haired pop starlet, who, with her cheeky sense of humor and sexy pin-up girl style, was “the breakthrough star of 2008” as Blender magazine put it in the issue that featured Perry on the cover. You could say it all started in April 2008 when Madonna told Ryan Seacrest that Perry’s “Ur So Gay” (off her November 2007 EP of the same name) — a withering kiss-off to a metrosexual ex — was her favorite song. “It may have been a small comment on her behalf, but it was a large comment in my world,” Perry recalls. “It was like a big boat leaving the dock and getting a champagne send-off.” Shortly after being anointed by the Queen of Pop, Perry released her debut single “I Kissed A Girl” — a provocative ode to the beauty of women that ruled radio over the summer of 2008, becoming an all-format hit and shooting to No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 where it stayed put for seven straight weeks and tied The Beatles’ Capitol Records record for weeks at No. 1. The video was nominated for five MTV Video Music Awards, including a nod for Perry for “Best New Artist” and became the No. 1 most viewed music video of 2008 on MySpace. A No. 1 airplay smash in 22 countries and the 2009 People’s Choice award winner for “Favorite Pop Song,” “I Kissed A Girl” has sold more than six million tracks worldwide. Its popularity also made Perry a ripe target for Fox News commentator Bill O’Reilly, who convened a panel of hand-wringing analysts to discuss the effect of the song on America’s impressionable youth. Perry was also voted “Best New Artist” by readers of Rolling Stone and PerezHilton.com On June 17, 2008, EMI Music released One of the Boys, a witty romp through Perry’s brightly colored world that showcases her sharp, candid lyrics, big voice, and feisty, girl-power swagger, as well as her appealing vulnerability on songs like her latest single, “Thinking Of You.” “I think people can appreciate a songwriter who shows different sides,” she says. “The whole angst thing is cool, but if that’s all you’ve got, it's just boring. Everything I write, whether it’s happy or sad, has a sense of humor to it.” Case in point: the album’s spunky, high-voltage second single “Hot N Cold,” which became Perry’s second No. 1 single and international hit, selling nearly three million digital tracks since its release. The eye-popping video, with its hilarious wedding theme, became the No. 2 most-viewed premiere of all time on MySpace, proving to armchair critics and naysayers that the success of this irrepressible young woman in the satin onesie and fishnets was no fluke. When Saturday Night Live spoofed her, it was official: Katy Perry was a bonafide cultural phenomenon. So why does Perry think that she’s connected with a mass audience when the road to stardom is littered with the failed dreams of aspiring wannabes? “Because I’m just myself,” she says, “and that’s all people want. People want to hear artists who are themselves, but who do interesting things and sing about them in an interesting way that maybe they have tried to conceive but couldn’t. I get a lot of girls who come up to me and say, ‘When I heard ‘Thinking of You,’ I felt that way to a T, but I never knew anyone who could put my feelings into words.’ I think that’s why people find me relatable. Plus, anybody can meet me. I’m not distant. I’m very much the same person I was before the hit singles. I just have a schedule for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.” Fans do seem to respond to Perry’s approachable girl-next-door quality (if the girl next door were a self-described “glamour ninja”), perhaps because it’s not an act. The middle child of two pastors, Perry grew up singing in church. “My dad would give me ten dollars, which is a lot of money when you’re nine, to sing at church, on tables at restaurants, at family functions, just about anywhere,” she says. Perry was raised on a strict diet of church music; “secular music,” as her mother called it, was “not allowed.” But one night during a slumber party, Perry happened upon a Queen record “and the heavens opened and saved me,” she says. “From then on, they have been my biggest influence. Their musicality and lyrics were so flamboyant and real. I’d never heard anything like it.” By the time she was 15, Perry was determined to pursue a path in music. She spent some time in Nashville working with professional songwriters — “these seasoned country music vets who had been writing songs for forever” — and honing her own songwriting skills. “Every single one of my songs is drawn 100 percent directly from my life.” At 17, Perry met legendary producer and songwriter Glen Ballard, who spent years guiding and developing her talent and songwriting. The strength of the songs and Perry’s full-throated voice captured the attention of Capitol Music Group, which signed her in Spring 2007. “I’ve been through a lot of highs and a lot of lows in this business,” Perry says. “Before I got signed, it was tough. I’d write a check for my rent and next to it, I’d write, ‘Please, God, please.’ But I didn’t jump off the Hollywood sign. Everything always works out for the best.” It’s a long way from being broke to stealing the show at the MTV Latin America “Los Premios Awards” (where Perry face-planted into a large pink cake) and hosting and performing at the MTV Europe Music Awards in Liverpool, England, which she did in November 2008, picking up the award for “Best New Act” in the process. Now Perry is gearing up for her first-ever international headlining tour, something she’s ready to tackle after spending a grueling summer on the Vans Warped Tour — a multi-band circus that one critic likened “the running of the bulls in Pamplona...minus the bulls, or the quaint Basque scenery.” “Warped was the hardest thing I’ve ever done,” Perry admits. “It was like being in the army, like GI Jane getting my ass kicked every single day, but now I know how to deal with any situation.” Photos From position 0, showing 20 items, asking 20 See All Next Page 1 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry smiles for photographers at the 57th annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles on Feb. 8, 2015. Larry Busacca/Getty Images 2 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry sports a sparkly feline crop top while giving a shout-out to her KatyCats and remotely accepting 2014 EMA wins for Best Look and Best Video. MTV 3 Now Playing katy-perry 2009 EMA host Katy Perry. Getty Images 4 Now Playing katy-perry 2008 EMA host Katy Perry. Getty Images 5 Now Playing katy-perry 2014 VMA dates Riff Raff and Katy Perry clearly took the denim-on-denim trend very seriously. Getty Images 6 Now Playing katy-perry "Dark Horse" partners Katy Perry and Juicy J give a kickass acceptance speech for their Best Female Video Moonman win at the 2014 show. Getty Images 7 Now Playing katy-perry After giving the crowd a fierce hair flip, Katy Perry gets ready to #werk her head-to-toe denim ensemble up and down the 2014 VMA red carpet. Getty Images 8 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry hangs out with her crew of VMA superstars (Riff Raff, Sam Smith and Miley Cyrus!) at the 2014 show. Getty Images 9 Now Playing katy-perry "Dark Horse" collaborators Katy Perry and Juicy J get cozy with their Moonman for Best Female Video backstage at the 2014 Video Music Awards. Getty Images 10 Now Playing katy-perry If anyone could manage to look flawless while wearing a head-to-toe denim dress on the 2014 VMA red carpet, it would be Katy Perry. Getty Images 11 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry and Riff Raff attend the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards Pre-Show in Inglewood, California. Getty Images 12 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry and Riff Raff arrive to the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards Pre-Show in Inglewood, California. Getty Images 13 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry attends the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards Pre-Show in Inglewood, California. Getty Images 14 Now Playing katy-perry Riff Raff, Katy Perry, Sam Smith, and Charli XCX photographed backstage at the 2014 MTV Video Music Awards in Inglewood, California. Getty Images 15 Now Playing katy-perry Let me see ya grills! Lil Jon may have rocked a mouth full of diamonds at the 2005 VMAs, but like most bling, it only gets better with time. Katy Perry proved just that when she nearly blinded photogs at the 2013 VMAs with her expensive grin Getty Images 16 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry closes out the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards with a knockout performance of "Roar." Getty Images 17 Now Playing katy-perry Katy Perry shows off her wild side on the red carpet at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards. Getty Images 18 Now Playing katy-perry Kacey Musgraves (left) and Katy Perry take the stage for CMT Crossroads. Rick Diamond/WireImage 19 Now Playing katy-perry Kacey Musgraves (left) and Katy Perry perform among the glow of neon palm trees and cacti on CMT Crossroads. Rick Diamond/WireImage 20 Now Playing katy-perry Kacey Musgraves (left) and Katy Perry put a twist on their hit singles on CMT Crossroads. Rick Diamond/WireImage News From position 0, showing 8 items, asking 20 See All 1 Now Playing Katy Perry Dolly Parton Reflects on Being Revered CMT News April 4, 2016 Read More 2 Now Playing Katy Perry Dolly Parton, Katy Perry Perform "Jolene," "Coat Of Many Colors" At ACM Awards NewNowNext April 4, 2016 Read More 3 Now Playing Katy Perry Katy Perry Went Full Country For The ACM Awards MTV News April 4, 2016 Read More 4 Now Playing Katy Perry It's Chris Stapleton's Night at the ACM Awards CMT News April 4, 2016 Read More 5 Now Playing Katy Perry Powerful Performances From the ACM Awards CMT News April 3, 2016 Read More 6 Now Playing Katy Perry Country Ladies Sparkle on the ACM Red Carpet CMT News April 3, 2016 Read More 7 Now Playing Katy Perry Dolly Parton And Katy Perry To Duet At ACM Awards NewNowNext March 22, 2016 Read More 8 Now Playing Katy Perry Dolly Parton, Katy Perry Performing Together on ACM Awards CMT News March 21, 2016 Read More Discography From position 0, showing 6 items, asking 20 See All 1 Now Playing Katy Perry Prism (2013) Virgin EMI 2 Now Playing Katy Perry Teenage Dream (2010) EMI Music Distribution 3 Now Playing Katy Perry MTV Unplugged (2009) 4 Now Playing Katy Perry Hot N Cold (2008) 5 Now Playing Katy Perry One of the Boys (2008) EMI Music Distribution 6 Now Playing Katy Perry Katy Hudson (2001) Red Hill Similar Artists From position 0, showing 14 items, asking 20 See All 1 Now Playing Lily Allen 2 Now Playing Karmin 3 Now Playing Betty Who 4 Now Playing Amy Winehouse 5 Now Playing Nellie McKay 6 Now Playing Justin Bieber 7 Now Playing Adam Lambert 8 Now Playing Nelly Furtado 9 Now Playing Ke$ha 10 Now Playing Avril Lavigne 11 Now Playing Paramore 12 Now Playing Carly Rae Jepsen 13 Now Playing Rihanna 14 Now Playing Far * East Movement Sign in | Learn more about MTV Artists | FAQ for Artists Katy Perry Bio | Katy Perry Tour Dates | Katy Perry Music | Katy Perry Video News | Katy Perry Photos | Katy Perry News | Katy Perry Discography | MTV | MTV Jobs | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | User Content Agreement | Copyright Compliance Policy | Artist Index | Ad Choices This site contains content from artists, fans, and writers from around the internet in it's natural form. Such content is not representative of Viacom Media Networks. ©2016 Viacom International Inc. All Rights Reserved. MTV and all related titles and logos are trademarks of Viacom International Inc. BETA Explore Artists Popular Collections Artist To Watch You Oughta Know Listen Up Watch & Listen StopWatch Unplugged Search For Artists Sign In Create Your Page FAQ More from Shows News Shows News Radio Shows Celebrity Shows News Movies
