#ThisURL#
http://study.com/public_administration_degree_in_new_jersey.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Ashford_University_Master_of_Public_Administration.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/iselin%2C_new_jersey_%28nj%29_colleges.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/hackensack%2C_new_jersey_%28nj%29_colleges.html
http://study.com/articles/Master_of_Public_Administration%3A_Degree_Overview.html
http://study.com/articles/Top_Ranked_Masters_in_Public_Administration_Degree_-_Atlanta_GA.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Public Administration Degree in New Jersey with School Info
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Public Administration Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Public Administration  /  Public Administration Degree in New Jersey with School Info Public Administration Degree in New Jersey with School Info Research Public Administration programs in New Jersey, which currently has eight colleges and universities offering programs. Read an overview of degree programs, tuition info and program options for these schools and decide which program is right for you. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools Essential Information Within the state of New Jersey several public and private not-for-profit colleges and universities offer programs in public administration. Studies are available at the associate's, bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degree levels. In addition, certain universities offer dual-degree programs that allow students to complete a bachelor's degree and a master's degree within five years. Students may be able to choose a concentration, such as educational policy and leadership, community development, health services or non-profit. Additionally, depending on the school, some courses may be available online. Listed below are profiles of eight 2- and 4-year schools in the state of New Jersey that offer degree programs in public administration. Centenary College Centenary College is located in Hackettstown. The college offers a Master of Arts (M.A.) in Leadership and Public Administration degree program. The master's degree program prepares students with the necessary skills to be successful leaders in public and private sector management positions. Students may complete the program either online or in a traditional classroom setting. Also, law enforcement personnel receive a 30% discount on tuition. Program Offered: Master of Arts in Leadership and Public Administration Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $29,630* School Type & Setting: 4-year, private-not-for-profit; suburban County College of Morris Randolph-based County College of Morris provides an Associate of Science (A.S.) in Public Administration degree program. The program's curriculum is applicable to students wishing to transfer and complete a bachelor's degree in public administration or political science. The County College of Morris serves approximately 8,500 undergraduate students annually. Program Offered: Associate in Science in Public Administration Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $4,005 (in-district); $7,485 (in-state); $10,425 (out-of-state)* School Type & Setting: 2-year, public; suburban Cumberland County College Vineland's Cumberland County College enrolls more than 4,000 undergraduate students annually. The A.S. in Public Administration degree program prepares students for public service careers. The associate's degree program is transferable, allowing students to pursue a bachelor's degree program at a 4-year university. Cumberland County College has various transfer agreements with 4-year universities. Program Offered: Associate in Science in Public Administration Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $4,170 (in-district); $4,470 (in-state); $14,070 (out-of-state)* School Type & Setting: 2-year, public; rural Fairleigh Dickinson University - Metropolitan Campus This university is located on the New Jersey side of the Hudson River in Teaneck. Fairleigh Dickinson University - Metropolitan Campus offers two master's degree programs and is a member of the National Association of Schools of Public Administration (NASPAA). The university has an agreement with Wroxton College in England and students may study abroad taking courses in health, emergency management, and urban development. Fairleigh Dickinson University - Metropolitan Campus offers specializations in public management, nursing management, Jewish communal services, and health services administration. Programs Offered: Master of Public Administration, Master of Administrative Science Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $33,792* School Type & Setting: 4-year, private-not-for-profit; suburban Kean University Union is the home of Kean University. The university offers a bachelor's and master's degree program in public administration, as well as a five-year combined bachelor's/master's degree program. The master's degree program has concentrations in health services, non-profit, and environmental-management. The Master of Public Administration (M.P.A.) degree program includes a 6-credit hour internship. Additionally, students may complete part of the master's degree program including the non-profit specialization at the Kean Ocean Campus in Toms River. The M.P.A. degree program is accredited by NASPAA. Programs Offered: Bachelor of Arts in Public Administration, Master of Public Administration Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $10,601 (in-state); $16,643 (out-of-state)* School Type & Setting: 4-year, public; suburban Rutgers University - Camden Rutgers University - Camden is a regional campus of the Rutgers University school system and is located in Camden. Students may enroll in the traditional M.P.A. degree program or earn a dual-degree combining a bachelor's degree in urban studies, political science, or economics with a master's degree in public administration. Students must complete master's degree program core curriculum as well as a specialization in public management, international public service and development, educational policy and leadership, or community development. Rutgers University - Camden offers an Executive Master of Public Administration (E.M.P.A.) program for working professionals with at least five years of mid-to-upper management or administrative experience. The E.M.P.A. degree program consists of weekend classes in addition to online coursework. Programs Offered: Master of Public Administration, Executive Master of Public Administration Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $12,923 (in-state); $25,799 (out-of-state)* School Type & Setting: 4-year, public; small city Rutgers University - Newark Rutgers University - Newark is a regional campus of the Rutgers University system and is located in the largest city in the state, Newark. In 2013, the university's School of Public Affairs and Administration was ranked as having the 7th best public management and administration program in the nation by U.S. News and World Report. The university offers a bachelor's degree program in public service, and a master's and doctorate degree program in public administration. Furthermore, the Joint Five-Year program allows students to complete an undergraduate degree and earn an M.P.A. degree by taking 12 additional graduate-level public administration credits. Rutgers University - Newark offers an E.M.P.A. degree program. Programs Offered: Bachelor of Arts in Public Service, Master of Public Administration, Executive Master of Public Administration, Ph.D. in Public Administration Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $12,590 (in-state); $25,910 (out-of-state)* School Type & Setting: 4-year, public; large city Seton Hall University South Orange-based Seton Hall University offers a M.P.A. degree program. The master's degree program stresses managerial and analytical development and students may specialize in public service, non-profit, or health policy and management. Seton Hall University offers a dual master's degree program which combines a Master of Art in Diplomacy and International Relations with an M.P.A. degree. Additionally, students may complete a bachelor's degree program in political science or sociology and the M.P.A. degree program within five years. Program Offered: Master of Public Administration Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013): $34,750* School Type & Setting: 4-year, private-not-for-profit; suburban School Comparison: At a Glance School Name School Type & Setting Public Administration Degree Programs Offered Undergraduate Tuition & Fees (2012-2013) Centenary College 4-year, private-not-for-profit; suburban Master of Arts in Leadership and Public Administration $29,630* County College of Morris 2-year, public; suburban Associate in Science in Public Administration $4,005 (in-district); $7,485 (in-state); $10,425 (out-of-state)* Cumberland County College 2-year, public; rural Associate in Science in Public Administration $4,170 (in-district); $4,470 (in-state); $14,070 (out-of-state)* Fairleigh Dickinson University - Metropolitan Campus 4-year, private-not-for-profit; suburban Master of Public Administration, Master of Administrative Science $33,792* Kean University 4-year, public; suburban Bachelor of Arts in Public Administration, Master of Public Administration $10,601 (in-state); $16,643 (out-of-state)* Rutgers University - Camden 4-year, public; small city Master of Public Administration, Executive Master of Public Administration $12,923 (in-state); $25,799 (out-of-state)* Rutgers University - Newark 4-year, public; large city Bachelor of Arts in Public Service, Master of Public Administration, Executive Master of Public Administration, Ph.D. in Public Administration $12,590 (in-state); $25,910 (out-of-state)* Seton Hall University 4-year, private-not-for-profit; suburban Master of Public Administration $34,750* Source: *NCES College Navigator. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Public Administration Degree Programs in New Jersey RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Princeton University in New Jersey Video Review Rutgers University in New Brunswick, NJ Video Review Public Administration Degree in North Carolina Masters Degree Public Administration New York Undergraduate Public Administration Degree Programs Graduate Schools and Public Administration Masters in Public Administration Public Administration Degree Program and Course Overviews People who are interested in working in government or non-profit management might consider a degree in public administration.... Online Public Administration Degree Program Overviews Find out about online public administration courses and in which degree programs they're most commonly offered. Get course... Top Ranked Program in St. Louis for a Public Administration Degree St. Louis, MO, has few schools with master's programs in public administration. Find the best program for you by reading about... Top Ranked Public Administration Degree - Cincinnati, OH Students interested in studying public administration in the Cincinnati, OH, area have few schools to choose from. Read about... Top Public Administration Degree - Honolulu, HI Public Administration Degrees in Oregon Masters of Public Administration Programs in NYC Top Ranked Master's in Public Administration Degree - Mesa, AZ Top Ranked Master's in Public Administration Degree - Atlanta, GA Bachelor of Public Administration: Degree Overview Online Masters Degree in Art History: Program Info Top Master's in Public Administration Degree Program - Long Beach, CA San Diego, CA Career Guide: Fastest Growing San Diego Careers Long Island, NY, Job Outlook & Overview of Growing Careers MBA in Public Administration: Degree Overview Master of Public Administration: Degree Overview Assembly Line Worker: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Top Ranked Master's in Public Administration Degree - Atlanta, GA Anesthesiologist: Education Requirements and Career Information Learn Genealogy in the Blogosphere 10 Top Genealogy Blogs Tacoma, WA Education and City Information Lab Technician Duties White Plains New York City and Higher Education Facts Health Information Technology Certificate Program in Arizona Salary and Career Info for Educational Technology Professionals Jacksonville, Florida: City and Education Information Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Kaplan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED 🌟 Graduate faster & save money with Study.com transfer credit 🌟 School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Public Administration Master of Public Administration - General MPA Master of Public Administration - Governmental Management MPA in Fire and Emergency Services Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management Bachelor BS in Liberal Studies Leadership Get Started with Kaplan University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... GED High school diploma Some college (1-19 Semester Credits) Some college (20 or more Semester Credits) Associate's degree Bachelor's degree Post-graduate study Master's degree Doctoral degree Still in high school 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Public Administration Bachelor BA in Public Administration BA Political Science / Campaign Leadership BA Political Science BA General Studies Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Public Administration Master of Public Administration Bachelor BA in Public Administration Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Public Administration - Government and Policy Bachelor B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in State and Local Public Policy Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5University of Delaware School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Masters in Public Administration Get Started with University of Delaware What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 6Northcentral University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors degree Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MBA in Public Administration Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Public Administration Get Started with Northcentral University What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Public Mgmt and Leadership (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Administration - General (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Nonprofit Mgmt and Leadership (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Local Gov. Mgmt for Sustainable Communities (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Terrorism, Mediation and Peace (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy and Admin. (Homeland Security Policy and Coordination) Master Master of Public Policy - Public Mgmt Leadership MS in Emergency Management - Public Management & Leadership Master of Public Admin - Public Management & Leadership Master of Public Administration - Policy Analysis Master of Public Policy - General Master of Public Policy - Interdisciplinary Policy Studies Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma High School Diploma Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 9Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Professional and Liberal Studies Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 10Norwich University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Public Administration Online Get Started with Norwich University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College 1 2 Next » Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Kaplan University Master of Public Administration Master of Public Administration - General MPA Master of Public Administration - Governmental Management MPA in Fire and Emergency Services Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management BS in Liberal Studies Leadership Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Social and Behavioral Sciences Business and Management Criminal Justice Fire Science and Emergency Management Health Sciences Higher Education and Adult Learning Information Systems and Technology Legal or Paralegal Studies Nursing Special Military Programs (Military Only) Environmental Policy Teacher Education 2 Southern New Hampshire University MBA in Public Administration BA in Public Administration BA Political Science / Campaign Leadership BA Political Science BA General Studies View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 Ashford University MBA in Public Administration Master of Public Administration BA in Public Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University Master of Public Administration - Government and Policy B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in State and Local Public Policy What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 University of Delaware Masters in Public Administration What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 6 Northcentral University MBA in Public Administration Master of Science in Organizational Leadership - Public Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... HS Diploma/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Have not yet earned HS Diploma or GED 7 Walden University Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Public Mgmt and Leadership (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Administration - General (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Nonprofit Mgmt and Leadership (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Local Gov. Mgmt for Sustainable Communities (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy & Admin. - Terrorism, Mediation and Peace (Course-based) Ph.D. in Public Policy and Admin. (Homeland Security Policy and Coordination) Master of Public Policy - Public Mgmt Leadership MS in Emergency Management - Public Management & Leadership Master of Public Admin - Public Management & Leadership Master of Public Administration - Policy Analysis Master of Public Policy - General Master of Public Policy - Interdisciplinary Policy Studies View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8 Penn Foster High School High School Diploma What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 9 Saint Joseph's University BS in Professional and Liberal Studies During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 10 Norwich University Master of Public Administration Online What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... High School Graduate Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree GED Some College Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Jobs in NJ Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics New Jersey Colleges B - L L - P P - W Nearby States Bloomfield, NJ Schools Bordentown, NJ Schools Cherry Hill, NJ Schools Clifton, NJ Schools Dover, NJ Schools Edison, NJ Schools Hackensack, NJ Schools Hamilton, NJ Schools Iselin, NJ Schools Jersey City, NJ Schools Laurel Springs, NJ Schools Livingston, NJ Schools Mahwah, NJ Schools Marlton, NJ Schools Montclair, NJ Schools Mount Laurel, NJ Schools Newark, NJ Schools North Brunswick, NJ Schools Nutley, NJ Schools Ocean, NJ Schools Paramus, NJ Schools Parsippany, NJ Schools Piscataway, NJ Schools Pomona, NJ Schools South Plainfield, NJ Schools Teaneck, NJ Schools Turnersville, NJ Schools Union, NJ Schools Vineland, NJ Schools Wall Township, NJ Schools Wayne, NJ Schools West Long Branch, NJ Schools West Paterson, NJ Schools Connecticut Colleges Delaware Colleges Maryland Colleges New York Colleges Pennsylvania Colleges Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
