#ThisURL#
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/featured-topic.html
#SubURL#
http://gadsden.floridahealth.gov
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2013/01/012913-pharmacy-tour.html
http://palmbeach.floridahealth.gov
http://brevard.floridahealth.gov
http://suwannee.schooldesk.net/
http://www.flickr.com/photos/healthyfla
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2013/10/100913-salmonella.html
http://wakulla.floridahealth.gov
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2014/03/030614-respiratory-care-website.html
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2013/05/051013-tb-progress-report.html
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2013/04/041013-h7n9.html
http://www.floridahealth.gov/certificates/certificates/divorce/index.html
http://flagler.floridahealth.gov
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2013/06/060513-clinic-update.html
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2014/01/011514-osteopathic-medicine-website.html
http://bradford.floridahealth.gov
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2013/01/011413-consolidation.html
http://www.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/2014/07/073014-florida-health-summer-camp.html
http://calhoun.floridahealth.gov
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/newsroom/featured-topic.html#
http://santarosa.floridahealth.gov
http://stlucie.floridahealth.gov
http://glades.floridahealth.gov
http://pinterest.com/HealthyFla/
http://baker.floridahealth.gov
http://lake.floridahealth.gov
http://polk.floridahealth.gov
http://www.healthiestweightflorida.com/
http://highlands.floridahealth.gov
http://suwanneesheriff.com/home.aspx
http://www.myflorida.com/myflorida/privacy.html
http://sarasota.floridahealth.gov
http://pasco.floridahealth.gov
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/contact-us/index.html
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov
http://martin.floridahealth.gov
http://citrus.floridahealth.gov
http://alachua.floridahealth.gov
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/events/index.html
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/programs-and-services/index.html
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/about-us/index.html
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/locations/index.html
https://www.facebook.com/FLDepartmentofHealth
http://www.floridacharts.com/
http://duval.floridahealth.gov
http://hernando.floridahealth.gov
http://volusia.floridahealth.gov
http://pinellas.floridahealth.gov
http://taylor.floridahealth.gov
http://orange.floridahealth.gov
http://www.suwcounty.org/
http://miamidade.floridahealth.gov
http://www.tobaccofreeflorida.com/
http://broward.floridahealth.gov
http://www.suwclerk.org/
http://union.floridahealth.gov
http://liberty.floridahealth.gov
http://hardee.floridahealth.gov
http://hillsborough.floridahealth.gov
http://indianriver.floridahealth.gov
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/certificates/index.html
http://charlotte.floridahealth.gov
http://www.suwcounty.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=34&Itemid=26
http://holmes.floridahealth.gov
http://washington.floridahealth.gov
http://www.floridaemstars.com/
https://ww2.doh.state.fl.us/DOHInitialApp/login.aspx
http://gulf.floridahealth.gov
http://madison.floridahealth.gov
http://collier.floridahealth.gov
http://okeechobee.floridahealth.gov
http://stjohns.floridahealth.gov
http://seminole.floridahealth.gov
http://bay.floridahealth.gov
http://lafayette.floridahealth.gov
http://escambia.floridahealth.gov
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/programs-and-services/index.html
https://twitter.com/HealthyFla
https://ww2.doh.state.fl.us/mqaservices/login.asp
https://peoplefirst.myflorida.com/
http://hamilton.floridahealth.gov
http://marion.floridahealth.gov
http://clay.floridahealth.gov
http://walton.floridahealth.gov
http://www.pinterest.com/HealthyFla/
http://suwannee.floridahealth.gov/locations/index.html
http://putnam.floridahealth.gov
http://lee.floridahealth.gov
https://www.twitter.com/HealthyFla
http://hendry.floridahealth.gov
http://leon.floridahealth.gov
http://nassau.floridahealth.gov
http://dixie.floridahealth.gov
http://monroe.floridahealth.gov
http://desoto.floridahealth.gov
http://manatee.floridahealth.gov
http://www.youtube.com/fldoh/
http://osceola.floridahealth.gov
http://sumter.floridahealth.gov
http://franklin.floridahealth.gov
http://jackson.floridahealth.gov
http://okaloosa.floridahealth.gov
http://columbia.floridahealth.gov
http://jefferson.floridahealth.gov
http://levy.floridahealth.gov
http://gilchrist.floridahealth.gov
http://www.youtube.com/user/fldoh
http://www.youtube.com/fldoh
#Title#
Featured Topic | Florida Department of Health in Suwannee
#Content#
skip to content Facebook Twitter Youtube Pinterest Flickr Florida Department of Health in Suwannee County Toggle Counties Alachua County Baker County Bay County Bradford County Brevard County Broward County Calhoun County Charlotte County Citrus County Clay County Collier County Columbia County Miami-Dade County DeSoto County Dixie County Duval County Escambia County Flagler County Franklin County Gadsden County Gilchrist County Glades County Gulf County Hamilton County Hardee County Hendry County Hernando County Highlands County Hillsborough County Holmes County Indian River County Jackson County Jefferson County Lafayette County Lake County Lee County Leon County Levy County Liberty County Madison County Manatee County Marion County Martin County Monroe County Nassau County Okaloosa County Okeechobee County Orange County Osceola County Palm Beach County Pasco County Pinellas County Polk County Putnam County St Johns County St Lucie County Santa Rosa County Sarasota County Seminole County Sumter County Suwannee County Taylor County Union County Volusia County Wakulla County Walton County Washington County  FloridaHealth.gov Menu  Programs & Services Certificates Locations Newsroom Events About Us  Search Search  Submit  Locations Alachua Baker Bay Bradford Brevard Broward Calhoun Charlotte Citrus Clay Collier Columbia Miami-Dade DeSoto Dixie Duval Escambia Flagler Franklin Gadsden Gilchrist Glades Gulf Hamilton Hardee Hendry Hernando Highlands Hillsborough Holmes Indian River Jackson Jefferson Lafayette Lake Lee Leon Levy Liberty Madison Manatee Marion Martin Monroe Nassau Okaloosa Okeechobee Orange Osceola Palm Beach Pasco Pinellas Polk Putnam St Johns St Lucie Santa Rosa Sarasota Seminole Sumter Suwannee Taylor Union Volusia Wakulla Walton Washington  Alerts   No alerts  Home Contact Us It's a New Day in Public Health. The Florida Department of Health works to protect, promote & improve the health of all people in Florida through integrated state, county, & community efforts. 386-362-2708 All Locations skip to content Programs & Services Certificates Locations Newsroom Events About Us Press Releases July 28, 2015 Join The Department Of Health For Virtual Summer Camp TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health is excited to host the second annual "Florida Health Online Summer Camp," set to begin next week. This free virtual summer camp takes place Aug. 1–7, 2015, through the department's Facebook and Twitter accounts. Read Full Article June 23, 2015 Health Care Professionals Applaud Governor's "Keep Florida Working" Budget TALLAHASSEE—Today Governor Rick Scott signed the "Keep Florida Working" budget for Fiscal Year 2015–2016. Here's what Florida health professionals are saying: Read Full Article June 08, 2015 Recognizing Cancer Survivors Day TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health recognizes National Cancer Survivors Day as an opportunity to celebrate and support Florida's cancer survivors, their caregivers and healthcare professionals. Read Full Article June 05, 2015 Transportation Safety Highlighted During National Safety Month TALLAHASSEE—In recognition of June as National Safety Month, the Florida Department of Health is helping to raise awareness about transportation safety. This year's theme, What I Live For, aims to reduce the leading causes of injury and death at work, on the road and in our homes and communities. According to the Centers for Disease Control, in 2013 Florida's age-adjusted injury death rate for unintentional motor vehicle injury was 12.46 percent per 100,000 people. Read Full Article May 22, 2015 "EMS Strong" During National Emergency Medical Services Week TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health, in conjunction with the American College of Emergency Physicians and National Association of Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs), is celebrating May 17–23, 2015 as National Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Week. This year's theme, "EMS Strong," is devoted to recognizing the more than 62,000 brave EMS professionals throughout Florida who ensure the public's safety and preparedness during times of emergency. Read Full Article May 06, 2015 Florida Celebrates Nursing Professionals TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health recognizes May 6–12, 2015, as National Nurses Week. Annually, National Nurses Week begins on May 6 and continues through May 12, the birthday of Florence Nightingale, founder of nursing as a modern profession. Every year, National Nurses Week focuses attention on the diverse ways registered nurses work to save lives and improve the health of millions of individuals. This year's theme, Ethical Practice, Quality Care, focuses on the critical responsibility of all nurses to uphold the highest level of quality and ethical standards in their practice to ensure the delivery of superior health care to patients, families and society. Read Full Article May 06, 2015 Celebrate National School Nurse Day TALLAHASSEE—May 6 is National School Nurse Day. This year's theme, School Nurses: Caring for Others. Caring for Ourselves, addresses the significant healthcare roles of school nurses in school communities across the country, as well as important roles in creating a culture of health and care coordination. The Florida Department of Health celebrates School Nurse Day by honoring more than 1,200 registered nurses who serve Florida's 2.7 million school children. During the 2013–2014 school year, these registered school nurses and staff members provided 25.7 million health services in Florida's 67 school districts. Read Full Article April 29, 2015 Clean Air Promotes Good Health In Florida TALLAHASSEE—This is Air Quality Awareness Week, a chance to appreciate the clean air we are surrounded by in the Sunshine State. The high air quality standards in the state decrease the prevalence of health concerns for residents and visitors. They also make heading outside to get moving and maintain a healthy weight easy—there's no time like the present to begin your journey to better health. Read Full Article April 24, 2015 Second Case Of Measles Confirmed In St. Lucie County TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health today confirmed a second case of measles in an unvaccinated child in St. Lucie County. This locally acquired case was isolated as a precaution as the first case was confirmed and poses no additional risk of exposure to the community. This brings the total cases of measles between St. Lucie and Indian River counties to five. Measles is a serious respiratory disease caused by a virus of the same name (Measles). The disease is highly contagious and can spread to others who are unvaccinated. Read Full Article April 24, 2015 World Meningitis Day: Importance of Vaccination TALLAHASSEE—April 24 is World Meningitis Day and the Florida Department of Health is working to raise awareness about meningitis, emphasize the importance of vaccination and provide support to those dealing with the consequences of the disease. The department strongly encourages all Floridians to get routine vaccinations to prevent the most severe types of meningitis. Read Full Article April 21, 2015 Health Officials Confirm Additional Case Of Measles TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health today confirmed a case of measles in an unvaccinated adolescent in Indian River County. They have recovered. This brings the total cases of measles between Indian River and St. Lucie counties to four. Measles is a serious respiratory disease caused by a virus of the same name (Measles). The disease is highly contagious and can spread to others who are unvaccinated. Read Full Article April 20, 2015 Celebrate Medical Laboratory Professionals Week TALLAHASSEE—April 20–26 is Medical Laboratory Professionals Week and the Florida Department of Health proudly recognizes its laboratory professionals and pathologists. The department's Bureau of Public Health Laboratories tests clinical samples for viruses, bacteria, parasites and toxins that cause emerging diseases or outbreaks in humans. This testing is critical to ensuring Floridians are healthy and that their environments are safe. Read Full Article April 17, 2015 Three Appointments to Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council TALLAHASSEE—Today, State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong announced the appointments of Orly Stolts, Danita Allen and Isabel Rodriguez to the Emergency Medical Services Advisory Council. Read Full Article April 10, 2015 April Is National Minority Health Month TALLAHASSEE—April is National Minority Health Month and during this month the Florida Department of Health's Office of Minority Health will join its partners in raising public awareness about health and health care disparities that continue to affect ethnic minorities and will continue its efforts to advance health equity. Read Full Article April 09, 2015 DOH Takes Action To Prevent Sexual Assault TALLAHASSEE—April is Sexual Assault Awareness Month (SAAM) and the Florida Department of Health is making strides to protect the safety of all Floridians. The department's Sexual Violence Prevention Program contracts with organizations throughout the state to provide sexual violence prevention education, special projects and social norms campaigns. Read Full Article March 25, 2015 DOH Addresses County Health Rankings TALLAHASSEE—Today, the Florida Department of Health acknowledged the release of the sixth annual County Health Rankings and Roadmaps. A collaboration between the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute (UWPHI), the rankings are a snapshot of the health of counties across the country. Data used to determine the rankings include information related to physical environments, social and economic factors, health behaviors and clinical care. The rankings are compiled using county-level measures from a variety of national and state data sources, much of which is available from the department at www.floridacharts.com. Read Full Article March 20, 2015 Three Appointments to Council of Licensed Midwifery TALLAHASSEE—Today, State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong announced the appointments of Dana Barnes, Susan "Robyn" Mattox and Tania Mondesir to the Council of Licensed Midwifery. Read Full Article March 18, 2015 The Florida Department of Health Supports Brain Injury Awareness TALLAHASSEE—Today is Brain Injury Awareness Day, and the Florida Department of Health is proud to recognize the continued efforts of the Brain and Spinal Cord Injury Program. This year the Governor showed his commitment to brain health through the allocation of $8 million in funding for Brain Disorder Research in his “Keep Florida Working” budget. Read Full Article March 05, 2015 MEDIA ADVISORY: "Dress in Blue" to Support Colon Health TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health invites you to raise awareness for colon health by participating in National Dress in Blue Day. Read Full Article February 17, 2015 Recognizing Black History Month TALLAHASSEE—In celebration of Black History Month, the Florida Department of Health is honoring African Americans in communities across Florida who have made a positive impact in public health. Black History Month, or National African American History Month, is an annual celebration of achievements by Black Americans and a time for recognizing the central role of African Americans in U.S. history. The national theme this year is "A Century of Black Life, History and Culture." Read Full Article February 05, 2015 Progress Made in Fight Against Devastating Disease TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health is celebrating the remarkable progress that's been made in the fight against a devastating disease that has touched all Floridians. This week the department and nation recognize World Cancer Day, February 4, as a chance to highlight how we can collectively impact this major health concern. Read Full Article February 05, 2015 DOH Launches Local Health Department Websites TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health announces the launch of new local health department websites. Each of the 67 local websites now offer streamlined access to the most frequently sought information and provide valuable resources for local residents. Read Full Article January 31, 2015 Residents Urged to Get Vaccinated Against Measles TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health is working with other state and federal officials to monitor individuals who may have been exposed to measles cases across the state. In the past two weeks, four cases of measles have been identified and reported among travelers with unknown or no measles vaccinations who visited Florida. Two cases involved international travelers. Read Full Article January 28, 2015 Governor's Budget to Support Protection, Promotion, and Improvement of Floridians Health TALLAHASSEE—Today Governor Rick Scott proposed more than $13.5 million in his “Keep Florida Working” Budget to support the health of Florida families and communities. The budget prioritizes protecting Floridians through research for diseases, enhanced surveillance and readiness for highly contagious diseases, early detection of cancer, and giving newborn babies a healthy start through genetic counseling. Read Full Article January 23, 2015 Medical Quality Assurance Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Division of Medical Quality Assurance (MQA) with the Florida Department of Health announces the launch of an updated, interactive website to better communicate with its customers. The new website serves as MQA’s service portal for licensing and enforcement information. It also displays a prominent rotating banner, informing consumers of on-going projects while providing streamlined access to its most frequently used features. Read Full Article January 09, 2015 Measles Case Reported to Local Health Officials TALLAHASSEE—A confirmed case of measles in a 15 year old male traveler was reported to the Florida Department of Health in Miami-Dade and Broward Counties. While infectious, the traveler visited local attractions and businesses between January 1–3, 2015, before leaving the state by plane on January 3. The Department has notified places the patient may have visited, individuals who may have been exposed and health care providers in both counties. The Department is also working closely with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to identify and notify persons possibly exposed during airline travel. Read Full Article January 09, 2015 Engaged in Fight against Human Trafficking TALLAHASSEE—January 11 is Human Trafficking Awareness Day and the Florida Department of Health continues to work on its efforts to bring awareness to this travesty. It is estimated that more than 20 million men, women and children around the world are victims of human trafficking. Statistics rank Florida as the third highest trafficking destination in the country, with half of all trafficking victims under the age of 18. Read Full Article December 29, 2014 Florida WIC Strengthening Families for 40 Years TALLAHASSEE—This year marks the 40th anniversary of the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, more commonly known as the WIC Program. The WIC Program is funded by the United State Department of Agriculture and was established in 1974 to improve the health of the nation’s children during times of critical growth and development. Read Full Article November 10, 2014 The Florida Department of Health Honors and Supports Veterans TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health honors and supports veterans, members of the military and their families on Veterans Day. More than 1.5 million veterans call Florida home. In recognition of Florida’s veteran health care practitioners the Department has released a special Veterans Day video message and a new resource, “Florida Veteran Health Heroes.” Read Full Article October 23, 2014 DOH Commends the Florida Department of Transportation for Complete Streets Policy TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health applauds the Florida Department of Transportation (FDOT) for promoting active lifestyles through the new Complete Streets Policy. Complete Streets requires streets to be planned, designed and maintained to enable safe, convenient and comfortable travel and access for users of all ages and abilities regardless of the mode of transportation. Read Full Article October 14, 2014 NEW: 2013–2014 Year in Review TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) is pleased to announce the publication of the 2013–2014 Year in Review. This Year in Review covers the time period from, July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014 and is being released as the Department celebrates 125 years of public health in Florida. Read Full Article October 07, 2014 Patient Recovering From Enterovirus D68 Infection in Polk County TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health announced the first confirmed case of an Enterovirus D68 (EV-D68) infection in a 10 year old girl who is recovering in Polk County. The Department advises parents, childcare workers and healthcare professionals to be vigilant for respiratory virus infections such as enterovirus (EV), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and influenza (flu). Read Full Article October 03, 2014 Members Appointed to the New Alzheimer's Disease Research Grant Advisory Board TALLAHASSEE—The State Surgeon General has announced the appointment of 11 members to the Alzheimer’s Disease Research Grant Advisory Board. The Advisory Board is a component of the new Ed and Ethel Moore Alzheimer’s Disease Research Program and will assist in the effort to fund research leading to the prevention or cure for Alzheimer’s disease. Read Full Article September 04, 2014 Are You Renewal Ready? TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health Division of Medical Quality Assurance urges health care licensees to report their continuing education hours as they are completed, prior to license renewal. The first mandatory reporting cycle begins January 1, 2015, and will require licensees to enter their continuing education hours into the Department’s electronic tracking system in order to renew their licenses. The first group of licensees to enter the 2015 mandatory reporting cycle using the electronic tracking system will be dietitians and nutritionists, and respiratory therapists. Since launching the electronic tracking system in January 2013, 252,758 licensees have opted to report their continuing education hours into the system. Read Full Article September 03, 2014 CVS Health’s Tobacco Free Policy “I am encouraged to see the commitment to health and wellness shown by CVS Health in its decision to remove tobacco products from their stores a month early. With more than 700 locations in Florida, CVS has seized an opportunity to improve health in our communities. I challenge other retailers to take this important step toward long term health for our state.” Dr. John Armstrong State Surgeon General and Secretary of the Florida Department of Health Read Full Article September 02, 2014 Take a Loved One to the Doctor Month TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health’s Office of Minority Health invites you to join us in protecting, promoting and improving the health of all residents and visitors by supporting the statewide campaign Take a Loved One to the Doctor Month. The campaign is inspired by the Take a Loved One to the Doctor Day national initiative which is celebrated annually on the third Tuesday in September. The 2014 campaign theme is “Only You can Keep Yourself Healthy; Healthy Weight; Healthy Food Choices and regular Check-up & Preventative Screenings = A HEALTHY YOU!” Read Full Article July 30, 2014 Inaugural Online Summer Camp: July 27, 2014–August 2, 2014 TALLAHASSEE—This week the Florida Department of Health is hosting the first "Florida Health Online Summer Camp." This free virtual summer camp experience on the Department’s Facebook and Twitter accounts is taking place July 27–August 2, 2014. Please use #FLHealthCamp to search for posts on Facebook and Twitter. The camp features a variety of health topics while encouraging young Floridians to choose healthy habits, engage in their community and achieve their healthiest weight. Read Full Article July 21, 2014 Strategic Goals to Improve Health Outcomes in Florida TALLAHASSEE—The Biomedical Research Advisory Council (BRAC) today announced its Strategic Goals and Tactics for the James and Esther King and the Bankhead-Coley Biomedical Research Programs, aligning research objectives with improved health outcomes and state health priorities. Read Full Article July 18, 2014 Letter to HHS and FEMA Regarding Unaccompanied Children Dear Media: Please see the letter that Florida State Surgeon General sent today to HHS and FEMA HERE. Read Full Article June 06, 2014 Grants Awarded to Expand Research Into Cancer and Tobacco-Related Diseases TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health today announced that research grants in the amount of $1,600,000 each are being awarded to the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute and the University of Florida. This grant funding will be used to expand research into tobacco-related diseases, such as lung cancer. Lung cancer is the leading cause of all cancer-related deaths, and is the most common tobacco-related cancer. Read Full Article May 30, 2014 Office of Inspector General Investigations Section Working to Receive Statewide Re-Accreditation TALLAHASSEE—A team of assessors from the Commission for Florida Law Enforcement Accreditation (Commission) will conduct an on-site assessment at the Florida Department of Health (DOH) Office of Inspector General (OIG) in Tallahassee on July 8th of this year. The OIG received initial accreditation status on September 29, 2011. The 2014 assessment is the final stage of an ongoing effort for the OIG to achieve re-accreditation and will examine all aspects of the OIG's Investigations Section, including looking at policies and procedures, management, operations, and support services. Read Full Article May 21, 2014 State Surgeon General Addresses Health Profession Graduates at NOVA Southeastern University Commencement TALLAHASSEE—State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong delivered the commencement address to the 2014 health profession graduates of Nova Southeastern University (NSU) on May 18. As part of the ceremony, the university granted the honorary degree, Doctor of Humane Letters, to Dr. Armstrong. Read Full Article May 19, 2014 Update on MERS-CoV in Florida TALLAHASSEE—The first patient in Florida with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection has been discharged from the hospital in Orange County. The patient has now tested negative for MERS-CoV and has recovered from the virus. All health care workers and household contacts who had contact with the patient were tested for MERS-CoV and all of those results have come back negative. There is no broad risk of MERS-CoV infection for the general public, and no threat to those traveling to the Orlando area. Read Full Article May 15, 2014 Update on MERS-CoV in Florida TALLAHASSEE—On May 12, 2014, the Florida Department of Health announced the first Florida case of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection in Orange County. The patient continues to improve. All health care workers who had contact with the patient were tested for MERS-CoV and all of the results have come back negative. There is no broad risk of MERS-CoV infection for the general public, and no threat to those traveling to the Orlando area. Read Full Article May 14, 2014 Update on MERS-CoV in Florida TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health announced on May 12 the first Florida case of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection in Orange County. The patient remains in isolation at Dr. P. Phillips Hospital, is currently fever free, and continues to improve. Read Full Article May 12, 2014 Health Officials Confirm First MERS-CoV Case in Florida TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health today confirmed the first Florida case of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection in a patient at an Orlando hospital. Read Full Article May 12, 2014 MERS-CoV MERS-CoV information provided by the Florida Department of Health. Read Full Article May 09, 2014 Florida Board of Opticianry Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Opticianry announces the launch of an updated, redesigned website to improve communication. The new layout provides enhanced transparency and increased accessibility to web services. The website also encourages public feedback and includes valuable resources for opticians, apprentice opticians, optical establishments and consumers. Read Full Article May 06, 2014 Florida Department of Health Recognizes National Nurses Week TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health recognizes May 6–12, 2014 as National Nurses Week. Each year, National Nurses Week focuses attention on the diverse ways America's 3.1 million registered nurses work to save lives and to improve the health of millions of individuals. The American Nurses Association (ANA) has selected "Nurses Leading the Way… " as the theme for 2014. Read Full Article May 02, 2014 Florida Board of Psychology Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Psychology announces the launch of an updated, interactive website aimed at improving communication through enhanced transparency and increased accessibility to web services. The new design simplifies the process of applying, renewing, or verifying a license and provides information on how to file a complaint. The website offers streamlined access to the most frequently used features, encourages public feedback, and provides valuable resources for psychologists and consumers. Read Full Article April 30, 2014 Board of Nursing Home Administrators Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Nursing Home Administrators announces the launch of an updated, interactive website to improve communication. The website was redesigned to deliver a simplified and more user-friendly experience, with streamlined access to the most frequently used features. The home page also displays a prominent rotating banner that introduces alerts, important news and notifications for nursing home administrators, administrators-in-training, preceptors and consumers. Read Full Article April 09, 2014 Media Advisory: Nature Play "Prescription" Program Press Event ***MEDIA ADVISORY*** TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health, Florida Department of Environmental Protection’s Florida Park Service and Get Outdoors Florida! will announce the statewide launch of the Nature Play “Prescription” Pilot Project. Read Full Article April 07, 2014 Highlighting the Benefits of Taking Time Off on World Health Day TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health and VISIT FLORIDA today recognized World Health Day, April 7, 2014, and encouraged Floridians to consider the many health benefits associated with taking vacation time from work. Read Full Article April 07, 2014 DOH Recognizes National Public Health Week TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health is recognizing National Public Health Week with the release of a new resource, “Florida Public Health Heroes.” During 2014, the Florida Department of Health is observing 125 years of Florida Public Health. Read Full Article April 03, 2014 Board of Podiatric Medicine Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Podiatric Medicine has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication. The website was redesigned to deliver better customer service and encourage public feedback through streamlined access to the most frequently used features. Read Full Article March 31, 2014 Florida Board of Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication. The website was created with the user experience in mind and was redesigned to deliver better customer service through enhanced transparency and increased accessibility to web services. Read Full Article March 25, 2014 WIC Program Completes Statewide Data System and EBT TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health’s Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) Program announced today completion of its statewide implementation of a new data system that supports clients receiving WIC food benefits. The new system uses an electronic card much like a credit or debit card rather than the paper checks used previously. Florida is the first state to simultaneously implement a new WIC participant data system and bring Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) services online. Read Full Article March 21, 2014 Florida Board of Chiropractic Medicine Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Chiropractic Medicine has launched an updated, interactive website aimed at improving communication through enhanced transparency and increased accessibility to web services. The new design helps to simplify the process of applying, renewing, or verifying a license and provides information on how to file a complaint. Read Full Article March 20, 2014 Florida Board of Clinical Social Work, Marriage and Family Therapy, and Mental Health Counseling Announces New Website Launch TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Clinical Social Work, Marriage and Family Therapy, and Mental Health Counseling has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication. The website was redesigned to deliver better customer service and encourage public feedback through enhanced transparency and an increased accessibility to web services. Read Full Article March 06, 2014 Florida Board of Respiratory Care Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Respiratory Care has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The new design helps to simplify the process of applying, renewing, or verifying a license and provides information on how to file a complaint. The website also encourages public feedback and includes valuable resources for respiratory therapists and consumers. Read Full Article March 04, 2014 Florida Board of Orthotists and Prosthetists Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Orthotists and Prosthetists has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article February 10, 2014 PRACTITIONERS: Are You Renewal Ready? TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health reminds health care practitioners of the importance of reporting continuing education hours before licensure renewal. In January 2013, the Department launched CE/CME @ Renewal, a new program that verifies a practitioner’s required continuing education record during licensure renewal. Previously, health care professionals were required to complete continuing education hours, but were not required to report these hours to renew their license. Read Full Article February 07, 2014 Highlighting Health Equity TALLAHASSEE—During the month of February, which is recognized as Black History Month, the Florida Department of Health is highlighting efforts statewide to bring health equity to all people in Florida. Since 2004, the Department’s Office of Minority Health has coordinated partnerships, program development and other related efforts to address the health needs of Florida’s minority populations statewide. Read Full Article February 07, 2014 Thyroid Awareness—Getting the Low-Down Could Change Your Life What is small, located at the base of your neck near your collar bone and has a distinctive butterfly shape? The thyroid, of course! While it may be small, the thyroid is one of our most important glands. It regulates the rate of our heartbeat, the speed at which we burn calories and other functions of our brain, liver, kidneys and skin. A healthy and functioning thyroid gland is vital to our body’s well-being. Read Full Article February 06, 2014 Board of Clinical Laboratory Personnel Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Clinical Laboratory Personnel has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article February 05, 2014 Statement Regarding CVS Caremark Announcement “I want to congratulate CVS Caremark for today’s bold decision that will lead to better health. Removing cigarettes from their more than 700 locations in Florida is welcome news for the families and communities of our state. I urge other retailers to follow suit and invest in the long term health of their customers and employees in Florida.” Read Full Article January 29, 2014 2014-2015 Budget Moves Health Forward in Florida TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health today highlighted Governor Rick Scott’s proposed 2014–15 “It’s Your Money Tax Cut Budget” which will invest in key areas to improve the health of Florida’s families and communities. The budget prioritizes cancer research and treatment, protecting the health and safety of Florida’s children with special medical needs and promoting healthy lifestyles. Read Full Article January 23, 2014 Raising Awareness About Human Trafficking TALLAHASSEE—The Florida D partment of Health is raising awareness about the presence of human trafficking in Florida and how the Department is addressing the issue. Human trafficking is a human rights violation estimated to involve more than two million victims worldwide annually. January is Human Trafficking Awareness month and statistics rank Florida as the third highest trafficking destination in the country, with half of all trafficking victims younger than 18. Read Full Article January 15, 2014 Board of Osteopathic Medicine Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Osteopathic Medicine has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article January 09, 2014 Board of Acupuncture Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Acupuncture has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article January 08, 2014 Board of Athletic Training Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Athletic Training has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article January 07, 2014 Board of Hearing Aid Specialists Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Hearing Aid Specialists has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article December 13, 2013 Board of Physical Therapy Practice Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Physical Therapy Practice has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article December 13, 2013 Board of Occupational Therapy Practice Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Occupational Therapy Practice has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article November 21, 2013 Get Smart About Antibiotics Week TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health, in partnership with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), is participating in Get Smart about Antibiotics Week, which is dedicated to raising awareness of antibiotic resistance and promoting appropriate antibiotic use. The effort addresses the popular belief in antibiotics as a fix-all remedy and emphasizes the dangers that antibiotic overuse poses to Floridians. Read Full Article November 19, 2013 Board of Massage Therapy Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Massage Therapy has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication, enhance transparency and increase accessibility to web services. The website was redesigned to provide better customer service and encourage public feedback. Read Full Article November 15, 2013 Florida Health Symposium 2013 How do we address the special concerns of Florida’s rural communities while focusing on helping people achieve their healthiest weight? Florida’s State Surgeon General, Dr. John Armstrong, will be hosting a series of statewide symposiums designed to promote dialogue to further incorporate community and other stakeholder perspectives into the work of the Florida Department of Health. Read Full Article November 15, 2013 Board of Optometry Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Optometry has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication between the Board and those it serves. The website not only enhances transparency, it provides better service to consumers and increases the accessibility of web services. Read Full Article November 14, 2013 Florida Health Symposium The Florida Department of Health works each day to protect, promote and improve the health of Floridians and visitors to the state. Our vision is to be the healthiest state in the nation. As such, Dr. Armstrong is hosting symposia across the state to inspire community-level conversation regarding important topics to improve the health of people in Florida. Read Full Article October 10, 2013 UPDATE: Information Regarding Salmonella Outbreak TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health has been notified that three additional cases of salmonellosis in Florida residents are linked to Foster Farms chicken by DNA fingerprinting, bringing the total to four cases in Florida. Three cases reside in Miami-Dade County and the fourth case was reported in Brevard County. These results are based on current information and may be adjusted as new information becomes available. The Department is working together with the CDC and USDA in the ongoing investigation. Read Full Article October 10, 2013 Early Detection is the Best Protection October is widely recognized as Breast Cancer Awareness Month and the Florida Department of Health reminds women to take charge of their health by getting regular mammograms. Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women according the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and based on data from the Florida Cancer Data System, 14,045 Floridian women were diagnosed with the disease in 2010. Read Full Article October 09, 2013 Information Regarding Salmonella Outbreak TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health has confirmed one case of salmonellosis, linked to Foster Farms chicken, has affected an individual in Florida. The Department is working together with the CDC and USDA in the ongoing investigation. Read Full Article September 03, 2013 National Cholesterol Awareness Month Cholesterol is a substance found in both the body and in many foods. While the body relies on cholesterol to function, excessive build up in the arteries can cause them to narrow and may put a person at risk for chronic disease or even death. Anyone can have high cholesterol, regardless of age. High blood cholesterol affects over 65 million Americans today and 37.1 percent of adults in Florida. High blood cholesterol is a serious condition that increases the risk for developing heart disease, which causes 1 out of every 4 deaths in Florida. Read Full Article August 28, 2013 Cyclospora August 28, 2013—We have 32 confirmed Cyclospora cases now. Onset dates range from 6/1–8/5/13, 17 cases are female, and age of cases ranges from 22–78 with median of 57 years. One hospitalization and no deaths. Cases are from the following counties: Read Full Article August 21, 2013 Board of Pharmacy Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Pharmacy has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication between Board members and those they serve. The website, www.FloridasPharmacy.gov, is designed to enhance transparency, provide better public service to constituents, and increase the accessibility of services. Read Full Article August 16, 2013 VOLUNTARY RECALL UPDATE: Sterile Products from Specialty Compounding TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) has confirmed that none of calcium gluconate infusion products potentially linked to bacterial bloodstream infections that were compounded by Specialty Compounding, LLC of Cedar Park, Texas were shipped to Florida. Through shipping records, however, DOH has identified other recalled medications from Specialty Compounding, LLC of Cedar Park, Texas, that were shipped into Florida. Department officials immediately began contacting all patients who received those medications to inform them of the recall and encourage them to actively monitor their health for any signs of infection. At this time, there are no known reports of bacterial infection due to these products in Florida. Read Full Article August 13, 2013 CONFIRMED: One Case of Naegleria Fowleri Infection TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) has confirmed one Florida case infected with Naegleria fowleri in Glades County. Naegleria fowleri is a microscopic single-celled living amoeba. The amoeba can cause a rare infection of the brain called primary amebic meningoencephalitis (PAM) that destroys brain tissue and is usually fatal. The amoeba is commonly found in warm freshwater such as lakes, rivers, ponds and canals. Read Full Article August 12, 2013 VOLUNTARY RECALL: Sterile Products from Specialty Compounding The Florida Department of Health (DOH), in partnership with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and Texas state health officials, is currently monitoring the voluntary recall of all sterile products produced and distributed by Specialty Compounding, LLC in Cedar Park, TX. At this time there is no evidence that these products were distributed in the state of Florida and the Department is working to verify that the products were not shipped into the state. Read Full Article August 05, 2013 Leading the Way in WIC Efficiencies MIAMI—State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong today joined with State Representative Jose Felix Diaz, District 116, and Florida Department of Health-Miami-Dade Administrator Dr. Lillian Rivera to publicly launch the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program’s transition to an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) system. Today’s ribbon cutting ceremony took place at Florida Baby Food Center, a WIC grocery store in Miami. A pilot project in Miami-Dade County began on July 1 as a part of the statewide rollout of EBT to better serve Florida’s families in need. Read Full Article July 30, 2013 Increased Efficiency in Licensure Renewal Process TALLAHASSEE—The Department of Health (DOH), Division of Medical Quality Assurance (MQA) improved the license renewal process for more than 1 million health care practitioners opting to renew online using a credit card. Historically licensees waited an average of 3.7 days for their license record to reflect the new expiration date and for a new license to be printed and mailed. This delay potentially limited their ability to work. The new and improved renewal process approves their license renewal application and updates their public license record in just one hour—a 94 percent improvement that keeps health care providers at work to provide continuous health care to the people of Florida. Read Full Article July 29, 2013 UPDATE: Officials Investigating Cyclospora Cases TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) today announced one additional case of Cyclospora in Florida, which brings the current total to 24 cases, including one hospitalization. DOH is working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, along with other federal agencies and health departments, to investigate cases of cyclospora nationwide in an attempt to identify the source of the infection. Read Full Article July 26, 2013 Officials Investigating Cyclospora Cases TALLAHASSEE—Florida Department of Health (DOH) officials are investigating 23 cases of Cyclospora infection in the state. Caused by a single-celled parasite that infects the small intestine, Cyclospora usually causes diarrhea with frequent bowel movements. At this time, there have been no patients hospitalized in Florida. Read Full Article July 24, 2013 Think You Don’t Need to Learn About Hepatitis? Think Again Your usual check-up at the doctor usually consists of a quick in-and-out procedure. You rarely ask to get tested for a disease like hepatitis—it’s not easy to contract, right? Viral hepatitis is actually one of the most common diseases in our world today. One out of every 12 people is currently infected with hepatitis B or hepatitis C. It affects approximately 400 million worldwide (4 million of which are in the US), yet many still remain unaware of the importance of testing for it. Read Full Article July 23, 2013 Veteran's Waiver for Initial Health Care Licensure Fees TALLAHASSEE—During the 2013 legislative session, Chapter 456, F.S., was amended authorizing the Department of Health (DOH) to waive initial licensing, application and unlicensed activity fees for military veterans applying for a health care practitioner license. Military veterans applying for licensure will now have these fees waived if they apply within 24 months of being honorably discharged. Read Full Article July 22, 2013 Assisting Practitioners with Verification of Continuing Education TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) has launched CE @ Renewal, a new approach that verifies a practitioner’s required continuing education record at the time of licensure renewal. Previously health care professionals have been required to complete continuing education hours, but were not required to report these hours as a prerequisite for renewal of their license. Read Full Article July 16, 2013 Health Risks of Using Synthetic Drugs TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) is warning the public about the health risks associated with illicit synthetic substances. Often used to achieve the same high typically produced by drugs such as marijuana, ecstasy, cocaine, and amphetamines, illicit synthetic substances are life-threatening and addictive. Read Full Article June 19, 2013 Enhanced Privacy Safeguards for Prescription Drug Monitoring Program TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) is strengthening privacy and accountability measures for the safekeeping of confidential prescription information after release from the Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (PDMP) database. The Department is collaborating with law enforcement agencies and the Attorney General’s office to strengthen existing policies established to protect health information. Read Full Article June 13, 2013 Information on Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE) A recent Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Vital Signs report shows that antibiotics are being overpowered by germs called carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE). These germs cause infections that are difficult, and in some cases impossible, to treat, outsmarting even some of the best antibiotics. Read Full Article June 11, 2013 HEALTH REMINDER: Dangers of Naegleria Fowleri TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) cautions those who swim frequently in Florida’s lakes and rivers during warm temperatures about the possible presence of Naegleria fowleri. Contact with this amoeba is rare, but targets a person’s brain and usually results in death. Adverse health effects on humans can be prevented by avoiding nasal contact with the waters, since the amoeba enters through the nasal passages. Read Full Article June 11, 2013 Main Street Family Pharmacy: Injections Investigation The Florida Department of Health (DOH) is partnering with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), state partners and other state health departments to monitor reports of adverse reactions associated with steroid injections of methylprednisolone acetate (MPA) compounded at Main Street Family Pharmacy, LLC., of Newbern, TN. Read Full Article June 06, 2013 Media Availability: State Surgeon General to Attend 15th Annual Family Café Event in Orlando TALLAHASSEE—The Secretary of the Florida Department of Health and State Surgeon General Dr. John H. Armstrong will attend the 15th Annual Family Café on Friday, June 7. Dr. Armstrong will be available for media questions regarding how the Department of Health serves children with special health care needs and the Department’s Healthiest Weight Initiative. Read Full Article June 05, 2013 UPDATE: Multistate Investigation Associated with Steroid Injections TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) today announced that Main Street Family Pharmacy of Newbern, TN has signed a Voluntary Agreement to Restrict Practice in Florida. This agreement legally mandates that the facility cease compounding sterile medications for Florida residents and cease the dispensing or shipping of sterile medications into Florida. Violation of these terms is cause for an emergency suspension of the facility’s license to practice pharmacy in the state of Florida. Read Full Article May 30, 2013 Efforts to Address Rise of Congenital Syphilis Cases in South Florida TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) is taking steps to address the recent increase in congenital syphilis in South Florida. In Broward and Miami-Dade counties there were 21 cases in 2012—up from 17 cases in 2011. Babies acquire congenital syphilis when the mother has syphilis and the disease is transferred to the baby prior to birth. Read Full Article May 29, 2013 UPDATE: Multistate Investigation Associated with Steroid Injections TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) today confirmed 13 cases of adverse reactions associated with steroid injections of methylprednisolone acetate (MPA). DOH is working with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), state partners and other state health departments to monitor nationwide reports of adverse reactions associated with MPA products compounded at Main Street Family Pharmacy, LLC.(Main Street), of Newbern, TN. Read Full Article May 24, 2013 Board of Dentistry Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Dentistry has launched an updated, interactive website to improve communication between Board members and those they serve. In addition, the website is designed to enhance transparency, provide better public service to constituents, and increase the accessibility of services. Read Full Article May 24, 2013 Investigation Associated with Steroid Injections TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) is partnering with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), state partners and other state health departments to monitor reports of adverse reactions associated with steroid injections. These reactions have been linked to injections of preservative free methylprednisolone acetate (80 mg/mL) in particular, which is compounded at Main Street Family Pharmacy, LLC., of Newbern, TN. At this time, there are no known cases of infection in Florida, but the Department will continue to work with Florida health care facilities in receipt of the products. Read Full Article May 20, 2013 The Choking Game—A Game with Deadly Consequences Blacking out, asphyxiation, unconsciousness, passing out—this may sound extremely dangerous to parents, yet some adolescents and teenagers consider it exhilarating. The choking game, an activity played to get a brief high, has become a craze among youth from ages six to 19. Read Full Article May 10, 2013 Response to TB Recommendations from the CDC TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) continues to collaborate with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on the 2012 TB cluster in Duval County. A follow-up to the October 2012 Duval County TB cluster progress report was sent to CDC this week. Read Full Article May 09, 2013 Improvements to Environmental Health Permitting System TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) has launched a new online billing system for environmental health-related permits. Approximately 150,000 permit holders will now be able to use a secure online system to pay permit renewal fees for swimming pools, biomedical waste facilities, food hygiene facilities, onsite sewage treatment and disposal systems (OSTDS), tanning facilities, migrant labor camp housing, limited use public water systems, body piercing facilities, community-based residential facilities, tattoo establishments and mobile home parks. Read Full Article April 23, 2013 Hold The Foam Considering a ‘foam party’ in the weekend plans? Foam parties feature soapy foam distributed from blowers or fans onto a dance floor. The foam can accumulate several feet and may lead to more than just frothy fun! In fact, foam parties are known for their risk of a number of health and safety issues. Read Full Article April 10, 2013 Department of Health Monitors Overseas H7N9 Bird Flu Outbreak TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) continues to closely monitor the influenza A H7N9 outbreak in China and is prepared to activate the agency's pandemic response team should it be recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). No influenza A H7N9 cases have been reported in the United States, however, the Department is being proactive by highlighting CDC guidance for testing and diagnosis of influenza A H7N9 to health care professionals to ensure detection of possible cases in Florida and to provide the best possible care if needed. Read Full Article April 02, 2013 April is Minority Health Month TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) celebrates April as National Minority Health Month in the continuing effort to promote health equity across Florida. To improve the health status of minority populations, the 107th Congress in 2002 established an annual National Minority Health and Health Disparities Month, which now occurs every April. This year's theme, Advance Health Equity Now: Uniting Our Communities to Improve Health Outcomes, is a call for unified action in our state. Read Full Article March 29, 2013 Improving Women's Pre-Pregnancy Health: Key to Improving Birth Outcomes TALLAHASSEE—A healthy pregnancy begins with a healthy mother. The Florida Department of Health’s new Baby Steps campaign encourages women to plan for a healthy pregnancy by reaching or maintaining a healthy weight, taking a multi-vitamin containing folic acid, and getting regular medical and dental check-ups prior to pregnancy. Read Full Article March 29, 2013 Time to Think About Health During National Public Health Week TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) and the Agency for Health Care Administration (AHCA) welcome National Public Health Week (NPHW) as an opportunity for Floridians to adopt healthy behaviors that make for better health. This year’s NPHW theme, Public Health is ROI: Save Lives, Save Money, recognizes the lives saved and costs avoided because of disease and injury prevention through robust public health systems. Read Full Article March 20, 2013 Statewide County Health Rankings Released TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health recognizes the value in measuring health outcomes and acknowledges the University of Wisconsin and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for the fourth annual County Health Rankings & Roadmaps tool released today. This study uses traditional, common data, much of which was obtained from the Department and is available at www.floridacharts.com. These rankings serve as a snapshot of the health of people across counties in each state. Read Full Article March 20, 2013 Cancer Navigators Bridging the Gap Think of a compass helping you navigate in the right direction. That’s the inspiration for the Florida Colorectal Cancer Control Program. The program uses cancer navigators to point cancer patients in the direction of treatment and care. These behind-the-scenes community workers have been a key component of the state’s efforts to improve screening rates. Read Full Article March 18, 2013 Florida Board of Nursing Launches New Website TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Board of Nursing (BON) today announced the launch of a new, interactive website. The updated website will improve communication among Board members and those they serve, increase transparency of the Board, and provide better customer service for constituents and applicants with increased accessibility to services. Read Full Article March 14, 2013 MEDIA ADVISORY: Update on Duval County TB Conference Calls TALLAHASSEE—In response to the 2012 Tuberculosis Epi-Aid Investigation in Duval County, the Florida Department of Health (DOH) has provided regular conference calls to offer updates to media and the public. Over the past six months, DOH has focused on achieving containment of the FL0046 strain TB cluster while striving to provide the highest level of transparency through 25 conference calls made available to the media and other interested parties. Read Full Article March 07, 2013 ADVISORY: Potential Flooding in North Florida TALLAHASSEE—With potential flooding on the radar for many across northern areas of the state, including the Alapaha, Aucilla, Suwannee and Withlacoochee Rivers, the Florida Department of Health (DOH) encourages residents located in these areas to be prepared for any future flooding that may occur. It is important to stay alert for flood warnings from local officials, including the Suwannee River Water Management District. Read Full Article March 01, 2013 Leading the Way in WIC Efficiencies TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health's (DOH) Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program is transitioning to an electronic benefit transfer (EBT) system to serve Florida's families in need. WIC is a federally funded program that provides healthy food, nutrition education and counseling to needy families. As a result of this innovation, 500,000 of Florida's most vulnerable mothers and young children will have easier access to healthy food at more than 2,000 locations around the state. Read Full Article January 31, 2013 Florida Department of Health Focuses on Families First TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) today welcomed Governor Rick Scott’s proposed 2013–14 Florida Families First budget that will improve the health of families and children across the state. Crucial public health funding will enable the Department to provide core family services, increase the availability of physicians for Florida’s families and support the Department’s efforts to promote innovative cancer care and research statewide. Read Full Article January 29, 2013 State Surgeon General Tours Compounding Pharmacy in Pensacola TALLAHASSEE—Florida Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong was recently joined by Representative Clay Ingram, R-Pensacola, in a tour of Pensacola Apothecary, a compounding pharmacy in Pensacola, Fla. The local pharmacy provides services to Northwest Florida physicians and specializes in formulating and customizing medications to meet the special health needs of patients and to assist where certain medications are not available. With recent discussions regarding compounding practices in the state and across the nation, this tour presented a unique opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge of the practice and to work with the Board of Pharmacy in its ongoing discussions of changes to best protect all Floridians. Read Full Article January 25, 2013 Florida Compounding Pharmacy Survey Results Released TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH), on behalf of the Board of Pharmacy, today released the findings of the Florida Board of Pharmacy Compounding Survey Report. The Board of Pharmacy approved an emergency rule on Nov. 20, 2012, making it mandatory for pharmacies to complete a survey on current compounding practices. In addition to the Department’s immediate public health response to the fungal meningitis outbreak caused by contaminated injectable products from the New England Compounding Center, the Florida Board of Pharmacy created a compounding rules committee to review existing regulations to ensure the safety of compounded products in Florida. Read Full Article January 17, 2013 FEEDBACK WANTED: On State Health Assessment Report TALLAHASSEE—As part of the state health improvement process, the Florida Department of Health (DOH) and its partners have conducted a comprehensive community health assessment of health and quality of life in Florida. The first-ever report will be used to inform communities, develop priorities, mobilize resources and take action. The Department has already responded to the report's findings by launching the Healthiest Weight initiative, which seeks to help individuals and communities achieve healthy weight and lifestyle through public-private partnerships. Read Full Article January 17, 2013 MEDIA ADVISORY: Surgical Health Care Quality Forum TALLAHASSEE—State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong will participate in the American College of Surgeons (ACS) Surgical Health Care Quality Forum Florida, a panel discussion to highlight the importance of physician-led quality improvement initiatives that help reduce costs and improve patient outcomes throughout Florida and across the nation. Read Full Article January 14, 2013 State Agencies Share Importance of Health Literacy ORLANDO—In a continued effort to promote the connection between reading and health, the Department of Health has teamed up with the Department of Education to celebrate, encourage and promote the 2013 Celebrate Literacy Week during the week of January 14–18. State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. John Armstrong today joined in the Celebrate Literacy Week festivities at Nemours Children's Hospital in Orlando by reading a health book. Read Full Article January 14, 2013 Taxpayer Money Saved Through Department of Health Efficiencies TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health is on the move. A consolidation effort that will render more business efficiencies and reduce operational costs began today at the DOH central office. This effort comes just weeks after being presented the Governor's Cost Savings Award for efficiencies and will save Florida's taxpayers $750,000 annually in building lease and facilities costs. Read Full Article January 11, 2013 Tuberculosis Strain FL0046 Contained In Duval County TALLAHASSEE—The Florida Department of Health (DOH) announced today preliminary results of its aggressive 2012 Tuberculosis (TB) investigation among homeless individuals in Duval County. The Department successfully located nearly 1,600 of the 2,100 individuals exposed to 40 active cases of TB strain FL0046 in 2010 and 2011, and adhered to all recommendations in the April 2012 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report. Throughout the course of the investigation last year, the Department identified 30 individuals with FL0046, a fully treatable strain of TB. This remains the same number as those identified with strain FL0046 in 2011. Read Full Article January 04, 2013 NEW REPORT: 2012 Statewide Child Abuse Death TALLAHASSEE—Drowning prevention and safer sleeping environments for children and infants could reduce unnecessary child deaths in Florida, according to a new report released by the Statewide Child Abuse Death Review Committee. Read Full Article   Media Resources Healthcare Licensing Videos Executive Leadership Public Records Requests Health Statistics Recent Articles MEDIA ADVISORY: Department to Hold Rulemaking Workshop for CMS Plan Clinical Eligibility Department Of Health Daily Zika Update: No New Cases Today Department Of Health Daily Zika Update: No New Cases Today Florida Department of Health Issues Suspension and Restriction Orders Department Of Health Daily Zika Update: One New Travel-Related Case in Lee County Celebrate Progress during Minority Health Month This April Connect with DOH #HealthiestWeightFL 1 out of 3 kids are now considered overweight or obese. 65% of adults in Florida are at an unhealthy weight. Featured Programs Suwannee County Resources Suwannee County Clerk of Court Suwannee County Offices Suwannee County Emergency Management Suwannee County Schools Suwannee County Sheriff's Office FloridaHealth Across the State Florida's Interim State Surgeon General and Secretary of Health Dr. Celeste Philip About the Department News Public Meeting Notices Public Records Requests Careers Internships Social Work County Health Departments Boards, Councils & Committees Certificates Birth Certificates Death Certificates Divorce Certificates Marriage Certificates Statistics & Data Annual Regulatory Plans EMSTARS Florida Charts Inspection Reports Request Vital Statistics Research Data Health Professional Licensure Apply Online Renew Online Application Status Provider & Partner Resources Brain & Spinal Cord Injury Program Volunteering Research Training By using this site, you agree to the Privacy Policy. FloridaHealth® is a registered trademark of the Florida Department of Health. Site Map Disclaimer Accessibility Information Email Advisory Social Media Disclaimer
