#ThisURL#
http://study.com/top_colleges_for_a_history_major.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Military_Studies.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/articles/Art_History_Major_Information_and_Requirements.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Liberal_Arts_and_Humanities/Social_Studies_and_History/Public_History_and_Archival_Administration.html
http://study.com/articles/Is_Studying_History_Still_Important.html
http://study.com/articles/Bachelors_Degree_in_Casino_Management_Curriculum_Info.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Top Colleges for a History Major in the U.S.
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Liberal Arts and Humanities  /  Social Studies and History Liberal Arts and Humanities American History Ancient Studies Asian History Classical Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies Cultural Resource Management European History Historic Preservation History of Science and Technology Holocaust Studies Medieval and Renaissance Studies Museum Studies Public History and Archival Administration Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Social Studies and History  /  Top Colleges for a History Major in the U.S. Top Colleges for a History Major in the U.S. Learn about the top colleges for history majors, which can provide students with the academic foundation they need to pursue careers in education, journalism and law, among other areas. Read summaries of three top-notch institutions, and find a useful table that profiles other schools in the U.S. that offer history majors. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools School Information History majors at top colleges are exposed to a wide field of study that can include topics in global and U.S. history, ancient civilizations or specific regional cultures. The three schools featured below include two Ivy League institutions and a research university that offer general and concentrated coursework for undergraduate history students. 1. Princeton University in Princeton, NJ School Highlight: Princeton's history department ranks highest out of all Princeton departments in terms of faculty members who have won Princeton's President's Award for Distinguished Teaching. Princeton University is an Ivy League school that U.S. News & World Report ranked first among national universities in 2015. The university also ranked number one in the nation for its graduate history program, according to U.S. News & World Report in 2013. Through the History Department, students can declare a major as an undergraduate and pursue a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.). Programs can include specialized studies in American, European, African or regional Asian history. According to the department, a well-regarded area of study is the Program in History of Science. Focused and multidisciplinary courses are taught by roughly dozens of faculty members. 2. University of California - Los Angeles School Highlight: Undergraduate students at UCLA's history department can work with history Ph.D. students at the department's History Writing Center to improve their academic writing skills. The University of California in Los Angeles (UCLA) is a top research school that U.S. News & World Report ranked second among all public universities in the country and 23rd overall for 2015; as of 2013, UCLA's graduate history program also ranked ninth in the nation. At UCLA, history majors are exposed to a broad range of topics, including the study of ancient civilizations, the history of various cultures and eras, contemporary nations and religions. They also examine the historical effects of significant social, scientific and technological developments. Selected undergraduates and graduate students in the Student Research Program may participate in advanced research projects with faculty mentors. 3. University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, PA School Highlight: Undergraduate history majors at the University of Pennsylvania are eligible for numerous prizes recognizing excellence in research papers and projects, including the Marvin and Sybil Weiner Travel Award, granting $1,500 for travel and research. The University of Pennsylvania is a private, Ivy League research school that U.S. News & World Report ranked eighth among national universities in 2015, as well as ninth for its graduate history program in 2013. The undergraduate history curriculum includes a regional concentration in U.S., European or world history. Thematic concentrations allow for further studies in diplomatic, economic or gender history, as well as intellectual or Jewish history. Undergraduates can also pursue a general course of study without a concentration. Master of Arts (M.A.) and Ph.D. in History programs are offered to undergraduates upon completion of their degree. Top Undergraduate History Programs College/University Name Distinction Location Stanford University Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies Stanford, CA University of Chicago Workshops for graduate students Chicago, IL University of Michigan - Ann Arbor Eisenberg Institute for Historical Studies Ann Arbor, MI University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill Military history program Chapel Hill, NC University of Washington Harry Bridges Center for Labor Studies Seattle, WA University of Wisconsin - Madison George L. Mosse Program in History Madison, WI Yale University Combined Ph.D. in History programs in African American Studies, Renaissance Studies and the History of Science and Medicine New Haven, CT Show me 10 popular schools Related to Top Colleges for a History Major RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Academic and Career Options for History Majors Video How to Choose Your College Major Video Colleges with History Majors Graduate Programs History History Phd Programs Best Graduate History Programs History Phd Online Course Requirements for a History Major: Overview of Core Courses An undergraduate history program provides students with a comprehensive world-view of the recorded past and its effects on the... Career Options for a History Major Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an archivist or history teacher. Get a quick view about degree... Campus Events that Shaped History For better or worse, college campuses have been the locations of some major historical events that continue to shape the world.... Art History Major: Information and Requirements Art history majors study how history, culture and politics affect the making of art. They learn how to analyze a piece of art,... Should I Major in Philosophy? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Masters Programs in History Phd History 10 Great Study Abroad Locations for History Students Do Schools Really Need to Teach History? Is Studying History Still Important? Do You Need a Bachelors Degree To Be a Wedding Coordinator? How to Become a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer What Does a Consultant Do? Surgeon: Career Summary and Required Education Higher Ed Seeks to Create Living History for Students and Community The USGenWeb Census Project Is Rewriting History How to Become a Certified Preschool Teacher Advantages and Disadvantages of Becoming a Doctor Online Graduate Degrees in Political Science: Program Options Truck Repair School GED FAQs What Should I Expect On Test Day Associate Degree in Loss Prevention Program Summary Bachelors Degree in Casino Management Curriculum Info Phd in Naturopathy Greek Mythology Degree and Career Information Wildlife Conservation Masters Degree Program Information Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in History - American History BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Military History BA in History - Middle Eastern History BA General Studies Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in History Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of General Studies Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 5San Jose State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Jose State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Get Started with San Jose State University Research San Jose State University's Programs 6San Francisco State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Francisco State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Museum Studies Get Started with San Francisco State University Research San Francisco State University's Programs & Degrees 7Saint Joseph's University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must have a Bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Professional and Liberal Studies Get Started with Saint Joseph's University During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8Harvard University School Info School locations: Massachusetts (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Harvard University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History American History Asian History Classical Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies History of Science and Technology Museum Studies Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Get Started with Harvard University Research Harvard University's Programs 9Stanford University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Stanford University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Get Started with Stanford University Research Stanford University's Degree Programs 10University of Pennsylvania School Info School locations: Pennsylvania (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Pennsylvania include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: First Professional Certificate, Post Master's Certificate, Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Liberal Arts and Humanities Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Historic Preservation History of Science and Technology Get Started with University of Pennsylvania Research University of Pennsylvania's Programs & Degrees Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Cultural Studies Ethnic and Gender Studies Geography and Cartography Human and Consumer Sciences Human and Social Services Liberal Arts, Humanities, and General Studies Military Studies Parks, Recreation and Leisure Studies Philosophy Political Science Public Administration Religious Studies Social Science and Studies Social Studies and History Theological, Religious, and Ministerial Studies Select your specialty subject area American History Ancient Studies Asian History Classical Mediterranean and Near Eastern Studies Cultural Resource Management European History Historic Preservation History of Science and Technology Holocaust Studies Medieval and Renaissance Studies Museum Studies Public History and Archival Administration What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University BA in History - American History BA in History BA in History - European History BA in History - Military History BA in History - Middle Eastern History BA General Studies View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Ashford University BA in History What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 3 Grand Canyon University Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History BA in History View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Baker College Online Bachelor of General Studies When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 5 San Jose State University 6 San Francisco State University 7 Saint Joseph's University BS in Professional and Liberal Studies During which term would you like to start? Select One... ASAP In the next 3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 12 or more months 8 Harvard University 9 Stanford University 10 University of Pennsylvania Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
