#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/lesson/narrative-poems-types-examples.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/articles/Where_Have_All_The_Cowboys_Gone_National_Cowboy_Poetry_Week.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-ballad-definition-examples-quiz.html
http://study.com/academy/course/common-core-ela-standards-grade-8-writing.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/articles/Is_Studying_History_Still_Important.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/academy/login.html?cta=bumper
http://study.com/academy/course/12th-grade-english-tutoring-solution.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https%3A%2F%2Fstudy.com/academy/lesson/narrative-poems-types-examples.html&width=100&
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Narrative Poems: Types & Examples - Video & Lesson Transcript | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Video: Narrative Poems: Types & Examples Some of history's most famous heroes have been immortalized in narrative poetry: King Arthur, Odysseus, and even Jed Clampett. From Homer to Chaucer to Poe to The Beverly Hillbillies, narrative poetry has been used to preserve some of the world's greatest stories.  English 103: Analyzing and Interpreting Literature  /  English Courses Course Navigator Odes: Forms & ExamplesNext Lesson  Narrative Poems: Types & Examples Chapter 2 /  Lesson 3   Transcript Video Quiz & Worksheet - Characteristics of Narrative Poems Quiz Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. You must create an account to continue watching Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Start Your Free Trial To Continue Watching As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you succeed. Free 5-day trial It only takes a few minutes to set up and you can cancel at any time. Already registered? Login here for access  Back You're on a roll. Keep up the good work! Take Quiz Watch Next Lesson  Replay Just checking in. Are you still watching? Yes! Keep playing. Your next lesson will play in 10 seconds Coming up next: Odes: Forms & Examples 0:02 Modern Narrative Poetry 0:33 Idyll 1:26 Epic Poetry 2:44 Lay 3:35 Ballad 4:53 Lesson Summary Add to Add to Add to Want to watch this again later? Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course. Login or Sign up Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Timeline Autoplay Autoplay 34,660 views Create an account to start this course today Try it free for 5 days! Create An Account Recommended Lessons and Courses for You Related Lessons Related Courses Lyric Poetry: Definition, Types & Examples Poetic Devices: Definition, Types & Examples Epic Poetry: Definition, Heroes & Stories Dramatic Poetry: Definition & Examples Elements of Drama: Characters, Plot, Setting & Symbolism Poems with ABAB Rhyme Scheme: Examples & Definition Figure of Speech: Definition, Types & Examples Dramatic Monologue: Definition & Examples What is a Rhyme Scheme? - Definition & Examples Literary Genres: Definition, Types, Characteristics & Examples What is a Preposition? - Definition, Uses & Examples What is Theme in Literature? - Definition & Examples The Fable, Folktale, Myth, Legend: Differences and Examples What Is Free Verse Poetry? - Examples & Definition What is a Ballad? - Definition & Examples Petrarchan Sonnet: Rhyme Scheme, Format & Example Poems Point of View: First, Second & Third Person Metaphysical Poetry: Definition, Characteristics & Examples Prose Poems: Definition & Famous Examples Understanding Tone and Mood in a Reading Passage English 104: College Composition EPT: CSU English Language Arts Placement Exam Common Core ELA - Writing Grades 11-12: Standards ACT Compass Writing Essay Test: Practice & Study Guide SAT Prep: Practice & Study Guide College English Literature: Help and Review College English Composition: Help and Review 11th Grade English: Help and Review Supplemental English: Study Aid ACT Prep: Help and Review 11th Grade English: Tutoring Solution CAHSEE Math Exam: Help and Review 11th Grade English: Homework Help Resource English 105: Technical Writing SAT Prep: Help and Review Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Writing: Standards 12th Grade English: Tutoring Solution GRE Prep: Help and Review American Literature: Help and Review CAHSEE English Exam: Help and Review Lesson Transcript Instructor: Heather Carroll Heather teaches high school English. She holds a master's degree in education and is a National Board Certified Teacher. Some of history's most famous heroes have been immortalized in narrative poetry: King Arthur, Odysseus, and even Jed Clampett. From Homer to Chaucer to Poe to The Beverly Hillbillies, narrative poetry has been used to preserve some of the world's greatest stories. Modern Narrative Poetry Officially titled 'The Ballad of Jed Clampett,' The Beverly Hillbillies theme song is just one of many examples of classical narrative poetry. Surprised? You shouldn't be! Narrative poems, or poems that tell a story, have existed in many forms over several centuries, and many of our favorite television shows start with nothing other than a narrative poem to give us the background for the stories to come. Narrative poems actually come in several different forms: the idyll, the epic, the lay, and, as we see for Jed Clampett, the ballad. Idyll Defining an idyll poem isn't so easy. During the 3rd century BC, the idyll was a short pastoral poem, which often dealt with shepherds and rustic landscapes. Pastoral literature idealized country life, as opposed to city life, so it only make sense that such poems would focus on scenery rather than dramatic plots or the affairs of nobles. During the Renaissance, idylls were more specifically described as narrative pastorals as opposed to those that used dialogue. The use of the word idyll was expanded further in the 19th century when it was used in poems that had no relation to the pastoral tradition. Among the most famous of these is Alfred, Lord Tennyson's Idylls of the King', a cycle of 12 narrative poems telling of King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table. Today the word idyll is used to refer to poems with a pastoral, or tranquil, mood. Epic Poetry Unlike the idyll with its shepherds and pretty scenery, the epic poem is a long narrative poem with a hero who often encounters a monster or other magical creature. The epic dates all the way back to Ancient Greece, where Homer wrote the Iliad and the Odyssey. The Iliad tells of Achilles and the Trojan War. The Odyssey continues years after the war and follows the Greek hero Odysseus through his postwar adventures. Beyond the superhuman stories of Homer's poems, epics do have a distinct form known as the Homeric verse defined by its dactylic hexameter, which is a set of six feet with a stressed syllable followed by two unstressed syllables. These epics are known for their extended similes (long comparisons using like or as) and epithets. An epithet describes a person, place, or thing in a way to bring out the characteristics in the object being described. For example, in the Odyssey, Homer describes a ship 'Sailing across the wine-dark sea…' The epithet 'wine-dark' enhances the description of the sea. And like other Greek and Latin epics, they open with an invocation to the muse where the speaker asks for inspiration from one the nine muses from Greek mythology to help him create a worthy poem. Lay Like the other forms of narrative poetry, the lay (also spelled lai) takes on various definitions and forms over time. Beginning as French narratives in the 12th century, the lay made its way to English poetry in the 14th century as the Breton lay. These rhyming poems focused on a romance and included supernatural elements and medieval chivalry. 'The Franklin's Tale' in Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales is a Breton lay and even tells us so in its opening lines: These old noble Bretons in their days Of diverse adventures made lays, Rhymed in their first Breton tongue, Which lays with their instruments they sang 'The Franklin's Tale' tells the romantic story of Dorigen and Arveragus, a married couple who vow to respect one another and do so even when times are difficult. Ballad Ballads are also narrative poems that rhyme, but these poems, which are usually sung, are plot-driven, showing the reader a dramatic story by describing each event in detail rather than simply telling the reader what is happening. These poetic songs are often constructed in quatrains, a four-line stanza, with an 'abcb' rhyme scheme. John Keats' La Belle Dame sans Merci, a ballad, follows this structure and rhyme scheme: abcb. 'Begone' and 'done' rhyme: O what can ail the, knight-at arms, (a) So haggard and so woe-begone? (b) The squirrel's granary is full (c) And the harvest's done. (b) × Unlock Content Over 10,000 lessons in all major subjects Get FREE access for 5 days, just create an account. Start a FREE trial No obligation, cancel anytime. Want to learn more? Select a subject to preview related courses: Math History English ACT/SAT Science Business Psychology AP Not all ballads follow that structure and rhyme scheme, however. Edgar Allan Poe's 'Annabel Lee' does use stanzas and rhyme for a sing-song effect, but the pattern is slightly different. He uses six lines instead of the four and follows an ababcb rhyme scheme. 'Ago' and 'know' rhyme; 'sea', 'Lee' and 'me' rhyme: It was many and many a year ago, (a) In a kingdom by the sea, (b) That a maiden there lived whom you may know (a) By the name of Annabel Lee; (b) And this maiden she lived with no other thought (c) Than to love and be loved by me. (b) And of course, if we look at the 'Ballad of Jed Clampett' we can see that it does follow the quatrain structure but with rhyming couplets instead of the traditional rhyme scheme. 'Aabb', with 'Jed' and 'fed' and 'food' and 'crude' rhyming: Come and listen to a story 'bout a man named Jed (a) Poor mountaineer barely kept his family fed (a) Then one day he was shooting for some food, (b) And up through the ground come a bubbling crude (b) Lesson Summary To recap, narrative poems, or poems that tell a story, come in different shapes and sizes. The idyll, a poem with a pastoral, or tranquil, mood, was made famous by Alfred, Lord Tennyson's Idylls of the King about the Knights of the Round Table. These are slightly different than the epic, which is a long narrative poem with a hero who often encounters a monster or other magical creature, which tells more of adventure than of landscapes. The narrative lay, which still looks to the supernatural and chivalry, focuses on romance instead of adventure in its storytelling. And finally the ballad takes on the form of a song and describes the story rather than simply recounting it for the reader. What all these forms have in common is that they tell us the story of people and places of the past. And while we might not think of Jed Clampett and his move out West as one of the most significant stories to tell, it is one we can remember, thanks to the narrative poetry form. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Create your account Register for a free trial Are you a student or a teacher? I am a student I am a teacher What is your educational goal?  Back Unlock Your Education See for yourself why 10 million people use Study.com Become a Study.com member and start learning now. Become a Member Already a member? Log In  Back Description Summary: Visit the English 103: Analyzing and Interpreting Literature page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular Do Schools Really Need to Teach History? Is Studying History Still Important? Campus Events that Shaped History Higher Ed Seeks to Create Living History for Students and Community Express Yourself: Celebrate National Poetry Month Where Have All The Cowboys Gone: National Cowboy Poetry Week Celebrating Deaf History Month Tap Your Inner Poet: 10 Top Poetry Blogs Learn History in the Blogosphere: 10 Top History Blogs History PhD Program Rankings: List of Top Schools Supermarket Cashier: Job Description, Duties and Requirements How to Become a Crime Scene Investigator: Career Roadmap Airport Ramp Agent: Salary, Duties and Requirements Recording Schools in California IT Degree Top School with a Degree in Information Technology - Cleveland OH Web Design College Top College for Becoming a Web Designer - Tulsa OK Nurse Practitioner Schools in Florida Accounting School Top Ranked College with Accounting Degrees - Tucson AZ × Course Navigator  Back To Course English 103: Analyzing and Interpreting Literature 6 chapters | 60 lessons 1 - Interpreting Literature Go to Interpreting Literature 2 - Types of Poetry Blank Verse: Definition and Examples 5:31 What Is Free Verse Poetry? - Examples & Definition 5:02 Narrative Poems: Types & Examples 5:59 5:53 Next Lesson Odes: Forms & Examples Sonnets: Definition & Examples 5:38 Elegy Poems: Definition & Examples 4:47 Dramatic Poetry: Definition & Examples 5:12 Go to Types of Poetry 3 - Prose Go to Prose 4 - Dramatic Literature Go to Dramatic Literature 5 - Literary Terms Go to Literary Terms 6 - Basics of Writing Essays Go to Basics of Writing Essays Like this lesson Share Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Click "next lesson" whenever you finish a lesson and quiz. Got It You now have full access to our lessons and courses. Watch the lesson now or keep exploring. Got It You're 25% of the way through this course! Keep going at this rate,and you'll be done before you know it. 1 The first step is always the hardest! Congrats on finishing your first lesson. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 5 Way to go! If you watch at least 30 minutes of lessons each day you'll master your goals before you know it. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 10 Congratulations on earning a badge for watching 10 videos but you've only scratched the surface. Keep it up! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You've just watched 20 videos and earned a badge for your accomplishment! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 50 You've just earned a badge for watching 50 different lessons. Keep it up, you're making great progress! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 100 You just watched your 100th video lesson. You have earned a badge for this achievement! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 200 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 200th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 300 Congratulations! You just finished watching your 300th lesson and earned a badge! Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 500 You are a superstar! You have earned the prestigious 500 video lessons watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 1K Incredible. You have just entered the exclusive club and earned the 1000 videos watched badge. Go to Next Lesson Take Quiz 20 You have earned a badge for watching 20 minutes of lessons. 50 You have earned a badge for watching 50 minutes of lessons. 100 You have earned a badge for watching 100 minutes of lessons. 250 You have earned a badge for watching 250 minutes of lessons. 500 You have earned a badge for watching 500 minutes of lessons. 1K You have earned a badge for watching 1000 minutes of lessons. Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
