#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Learning_Disabilities_Fact_and_Fiction.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/program/Southern_New_Hampshire_University_MS_in_English_and_Creative_Writing_-_Fiction.html
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Southern_New_Hampshire_University_BA_in_Creative_Writing_-_Poetry.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/articles/Masters_in_ABA_Therapy_Info_on_Applied_Behavioral_Analysis_Programs.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/Free_Books_-_50_Places_to_Find_Free_Books_Online.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Learning Disabilities: Fact and Fiction
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Communications and Journalism  /  English Composition  /  Creative Writing, General Communications and Journalism English Composition Writing Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Education Insider News Blog  /  Parents  /  February 2011  /  Learning Disabilities: Fact and Fiction Learning Disabilities: Fact and Fiction Feb 24, 2011 In observance of Learning Disabilities Week, we here at Study.com want to clear up some misconceptions about common learning challenges such as dyslexia, dyscalculia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools By Megan Driscoll Struggling to Learn Education researchers believe that 5-10 percent of American kids ages 6-17 are affected by learning disabilities (LD). While experts don't know exactly what causes most learning disabilities, they do believe symptoms result from differences in brain structure or function. Some common misconceptions about learning disabilities include: Learning disabilities are like other forms of brain disorders. Learning disabilities are separate and distinct from problems caused by emotional dysfunction, mental retardation or hearing, visual or motor disabilities. He's not smart. In fact, individuals with learning disabilities have 'normal' intelligence. They just suffer from a neurobiological dysfunction that makes it more difficult for them to learn. She's faking it. Learning disabilities are a very real phenomenon, with a proven biological basis. Recent research has even found some genetic links for LD in families. It's the student's background. Learning disabilities are not specific to any racial, cultural or socioeconomic category. Students from all backgrounds are equally susceptible. Three of the most common challenges to learning that students face are dyslexia, dyscalculia and ADHD. Dyslexia The most common learning disability is dyslexia, which accounts for 80 percent of U.S. students with LD. The condition tends to affect more boys than girls. In a nutshell, dyslexia is a language problem that makes it difficult for students to read. The trouble is not with vision; it is the brain that struggles to parse the sounds that make up words. People with dyslexia have a hard time writing or thinking about the sounds in a word or breaking a word down into its component parts. As a result, translating thought to language (writing) and language to thought (listening or reading) presents a significant challenge. Early diagnosis is important for dyslexia; without intervention, students can fall further and further behind in the classroom. Kids with untreated dyslexia often struggle with their work and become frustrated at school. Many also suffer from low self-esteem and are more prone to misbehavior. There are many alternative ways to teach reading to dyslexic students, however, so early intervention can lead to a relatively normal school life. Dyscalculia 'Dyscalculia' is an umbrella term used to refer to a wide range of math disabilities. Although less well known than dyslexia, dyscalculia affects a significant number of children. There are two main types of dyscalculia. Some individuals have visual-spatial problems, making it difficult for the brain to process what the eye sees. These people may have a hard time visualizing patterns or parts of math problems. Others struggle with processing language; in effect, the brain doesn't fully understand what the ear hears. Those who are affected by this condition struggle to grasp math vocabulary, which can result in challenges developing mathematical skills. If dyscalculia goes undiagnosed, it can lead to lifelong frustration with math. But when educators are able to identify it, they can use alternative methods for teaching math that allow people with dyscalculia make progress. Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, isn't technically a learning disability. It is, though, very common in students with LD and can cause plenty of challenges at school on its own. Referred to by some as attention deficit disorder (ADD), ADHD is a brain condition that makes it difficult for individuals to stay focused and/or in control of behavior. While it is normal for all students to be inattentive, impulsive or hyperactive at times, these issues are more common and severe in individuals with ADHD. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is typically treated with a combination of medication and behavioral therapy. While some students with ADHD require special education to help keep them on track, others are able to function in a normal classroom once their symptoms are under control. Looking for ways to help your child learn? Don't forget the importance of reading out loud. Show me 10 popular schools Related to Learning Disabilities: Fact and Fiction RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Teacher Certification Video: Earning a Teaching Certification or Teaching Credential University of Rochester in New York Video Review New Study Connects Fiction With Empathy Reading fiction can be a great way to unwind while engaging the mind. It's an activity that keeps us connected with different... How to Get an MFA in Fiction: Program Overview Individuals interested in writing short stories or novels can pursue a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) in Fiction or an MFA in... Job Description of a Professional Fiction Writer Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a fiction writer. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as... List of Free Fiction Writing Courses and Classes Learn about fiction writing with these free online courses. See the full list of free fiction writing courses and find the... Free Books - 50 Places to Find Free Books Online 40 Places for College Students to Find Free Unabridged Books Online Reading Rainbow: What Are Young Adults Reading Today? Online PhD in Writing: Doctoral Program Overview Agricultural Business Manager: Job Description & Career Info Yoga Teacher Training Via Distance Education Do You Need a Bachelors Degree To Be a Wedding Coordinator? How to Become a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer List of Free Online Creative Writing Courses, Classes and Workshops Schools with Creative Writing Programs: How to Choose Online Bachelor's Degree in Radiologic Science: Program Info Should I Major in Chemistry? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test How to Become a Farmer: Education and Career Roadmap LPN Course Online Midwifery Degree Certificate and Certification Program Information Human Resources Management Diploma Program Summary Associate of Medical Radiography Degree Overview Top Ranked Masters in Taxation Schools Masters in ABA Therapy Info on Applied Behavioral Analysis Programs Bachelors Degree in Economic Crime Investigation Program Info Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA in English and Creative Writing - Fiction MA in English and Creative Writing MA in English and Creative Writing - Nonfiction MA in English and Creative Writing - Poetry Master of Arts in English MA in Communication Bachelor BA in Creative Writing - Screenwriting BA in Creative Writing - Poetry BA in Creative Writing - Fiction Writing BA in Creative Writing & English BA in Creative Writing - Nonfiction Writing BA in Communication - Professional Writing Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MFA in Creative Writing Bachelor Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors BFA in Creative Writing for Entertainment Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in English Literature Bachelor of Arts in English with an Emphasis in Professional Writing BA in Communications Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BA in English Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Certificate - English: Comprehensive Skills in Reading & Writing Career Diploma: Freelance Writer Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 6Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Communication Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 7Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Reading, Literacy, and Assesment Master MS in Management - Communication M.S. in Communication Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8Baker University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older. Must have high school diploma or GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Strategic Communication Online Get Started with Baker University Education Level Completed: Select One... Completed High School Diploma or GED Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 48 or more Credits (3+ years) of College Bachelor's Degree No High School Diploma or GED Master's Degree 9San Jose State University School Info School locations: California (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at San Jose State University include: Graduate: Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Communications and Journalism Communication Studies Comparative Language Studies and Services Digital, Radio, and Television Communication English Composition Creative Writing, General English Language and Literature Foreign Language and Literature Journalism Public Relations and Advertising Get Started with San Jose State University Research San Jose State University's Programs 10Indiana Wesleyan University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master M.Ed. Reading Bachelor BS Human Communications Get Started with Indiana Wesleyan University What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area American Sign Language - ASL Communication Studies Communication Technology Comparative Language Studies and Services Digital, Radio, and Television Communication English Composition English Language and Literature Foreign Language and Literature Graphic Communications Journalism Public Relations and Advertising Publishing Select your specialty subject area Creative Writing, General Writing What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Southern New Hampshire University MA in English and Creative Writing - Fiction MA in English and Creative Writing MA in English and Creative Writing - Nonfiction MA in English and Creative Writing - Poetry Master of Arts in English MA in Communication BA in Creative Writing - Screenwriting BA in Creative Writing - Poetry BA in Creative Writing - Fiction Writing BA in Creative Writing & English BA in Creative Writing - Nonfiction Writing BA in Communication - Professional Writing View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 2 Full Sail University MFA in Creative Writing Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors BFA in Creative Writing for Entertainment View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 3 Grand Canyon University BA in English Literature Bachelor of Arts in English with an Emphasis in Professional Writing BA in Communications View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Ashford University BA in English What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 5 Penn Foster Career School Certificate - English: Comprehensive Skills in Reading & Writing Career Diploma: Freelance Writer What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 6 Colorado State University Global BS in Communication What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree 7 Walden University Education Specialist (Ed.S.) in Reading, Literacy, and Assesment MS in Management - Communication M.S. in Communication View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8 Baker University Bachelor of Science in Strategic Communication Online Education Level Completed: Select One... Completed High School Diploma or GED Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 48 or more Credits (3+ years) of College Bachelor's Degree No High School Diploma or GED Master's Degree 9 San Jose State University 10 Indiana Wesleyan University M.Ed. Reading BS Human Communications What is your highest level of education? Select One... Earned Master's Degree Earned Bachelor's Degree Completed 48 or more Credits (3 or more years) of College Completed 24-47 (2 years) of College Completed 0-23 (1 year) of College Completed High School Diploma or GED High School Senior High School Junior High School Sophomore or Freshman No HS Diploma/No GED Show more schools… Avg. Wages For Related Jobs Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
