#ThisURL#
http://energy.gov/eere/about-us/leadership
#SubURL#
http://energy.gov/eere/about-us/leadership#main-content
http://energy.gov/eere/about-us/leadership
http://energy.gov/eere/budget/budget-formulation-and-execution
http://energy.gov/eere/about-us/ump-contacts
http://energy.gov/cio/department-energy-information-quality-guidelines
http://energy.gov/eere/renewables/wind
http://energy.gov/eere/success-stories/eere-success-stories
http://energy.gov/eere/contributors/david-friedman
http://energy.gov/eere/about-us/business-operations
http://energy.gov/eere/steab/state-energy-advisory-board
https://www.osc.gov/Pages/DOW.aspx
http://www.usa.gov
https://www.directives.doe.gov
http://apps1.eere.energy.gov/news/
http://www.whitehouse.gov
#Title#
Leadership | Department of Energy
#Content#
Skip to main content Menu Energy.gov Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy Search Search form Search Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy Services Services Home Energy Basics States & Local Communities Technical Assistance Energy Analysis Jobs, Education, & Training Publications Funding Funding Home Small Business Program Efficiency Efficiency Home Buildings Homes Advanced Manufacturing Government Energy Management Renewables Renewables Home Solar Geothermal Wind Water Transportation Transportation Home Vehicles Bioenergy Hydrogen & Fuel Cells About Us About Us Home News & Blog News & Blog Home News News Home Newsletters & Updates Archives Blog B-Roll Photographs Social Media Subscribe RSS Feeds RSS Feeds Home About RSS Mission Leadership Budget Budget Home Formulation & Execution Archives EERE Offices Business Operations Business Operations Home Budget Budget Home Performance Planning Management & Reporting Workforce Management Office Information & Technology Services Office Project Management Coordination Office Project Management Coordination Office Home Methods & Process Stewardship Project Portfolio Oversight Competency Management & Cross-Cutting Activities Operations, Audit Resolution, & Internal Controls Golden Field Office Golden Field Office Home Golden Field Office Reading Room Contact Us National Environmental Policy Act Contact Us Strategic Programs Strategic Programs Home Policy & Analysis Technology-to-Market International International Home International Partnerships & Projects Stakeholder Engagement Communications Legislative Affairs National Laboratory Impact Initiative Contact Us Initiatives & Projects Initiatives & Projects Home State Energy Advisory Board Uniform Methods Project Uniform Methods Project Home About Protocols Related Links Contact Us Success Stories Plans, Implementation, & Results Plans, Implementation, & Results Home About EERE Corporate-Level Documents Glossary Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Home Working at EERE Job Vacancies Internships & Fellowships Related Links FAQs Contact Us Offices You are here Home » About Us » Leadership Leadership This page features biographies for the members of the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) management. For more information, see the EERE organization chart. Executive Leadership David Danielson Assistant Secretary David Danielson leads EERE's energy portfolio, helping hasten the transition to a clean energy economy. He oversees six major technology and strategic areas, including Energy Efficiency, Renewable Power, Sustainable Transportation, Strategic Programs, Financial Management, and Business Operations offices. He represents EERE before national, state, and local audiences to reinforce EERE's mission and to leverage partnerships to transform the nation's economic engine to one powered by clean energy. David Friedman Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary David Friedman helps lead the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE). As Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, he helps manage day-to-day operations and oversee a broad technology portfolio designed to accelerate development and deployment of energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies. Steven Chalk Deputy Assistant Secretary for Operations and Strategic Innovation Steve Chalk directs EERE's business operations, including finance and budget, IT, project management, strategic programs, and workforce management. In addition, he also oversees the Golden Field Office in Golden, Colorado and leads strategic initiatives to improve the way EERE conducts its daily operations. Roland Risser Deputy Assistant Secretary for Renewable Power (Acting) Roland Risser directs EERE's renewable energy applied research, development, and demonstration activities for the geothermal, solar energy, and wind and water power technology offices. In addition, he oversees EERE's laboratory engagement and energy system integration efforts. Reuben Sarkar Deputy Assistant Secretary for Transportation Reuben Sarkar oversees EERE's Sustainable Transportation area, which includes the Vehicle, Fuel Cell, and Bioenergy Technologies offices. Their focus is to reduce our oil dependence, avoid pollution, and create jobs by designing and manufacturing petroleum alternatives and more energy efficient cars and trucks. Kathleen Hogan Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency Dr. Kathleen Hogan is the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency in the Office of EERE. In this capacity, she oversees a more than $600 million annual energy efficiency policy, program, and research portfolio, including advanced manufacturing, buildings, federal energy management, low income weatherization, and intergovernmental partnerships. Michael Budney Director of Business Operations Michael Budney manages EERE's daily operations. In that role, he oversees the Workforce Management, the Project Management Coordination and Information Technology Services offices to ensure their efforts are aligned, effective, and responsive to the organization's needs. John Lushetsky Strategic Programs Director John Lushetsky serves as the Director of Strategic Programs in EERE, managing key cross-cutting programs and activities to advance EERE's mission. Technology Sector Leaders Sustainable Transportation Christy Cooper Vehicle Technologies Office Director (Acting) Christy Cooper leads an array of activities that help reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and secure a clean energy future. The Vehicle Technologies Office supports about $300 million in annual research funding for hybrid drivetrains, advanced batteries, lightweight materials, advanced combustion and fuels, vehicle systems integration, and Clean Cities deployment activities. Sunita Satyapal Fuel Cell Technologies Office Director Sunita Satyapal is responsible for the Office's overall strategy and execution, including oversight and coordination of about $100 million in research, development, demonstration, and deployment activities related to hydrogen and fuel cells. Jonathan Male Bioenergy Technologies Office Director Jonathan Male leads the Office's overall strategic, technical, and project oversight of efforts to improve performance, lower costs, and accelerate market entry of advanced biofuels and bioproducts, which can help reduce America's imports of oil while enabling a new industry with an improved environmental impact. The Bioenergy Technology Office supports about $200 million in annual research funding in research, development, and demonstration activities through public-private partnerships across the entire bioenergy and bioproducts supply chain. Renewable Electricity Generation/Renewable Power Susan Hamm Geothermal Technologies Office Director (Acting) Dr. Susan Hamm leads the Office's overall strategic, technical, and project oversight of cutting-edge technologies designed to advance geothermal as a key contributor to the U.S. energy portfolio. She partners with industry, academia, and DOE's national laboratories to establish geothermal energy as an economically competitive and widely available component of the U.S. energy supply. Lidija Sekaric Solar Energy Technologies Office Director (Acting) Lidija Sekaric leads a team that is responsible for driving research, manufacturing, and market solutions to make solar energy cost-competitive with other forms of energy by the end of the decade. Jose Zayas Wind and Water Power Technologies Office Director Jose Zayas manages efforts to improve performance, lower costs, and accelerate deployment of wind and water power technologies, which can play a significant role in America's clean energy future. Energy Efficient Homes, Buildings, and Manufacturing Roland Risser Building Technologies Office Director Roland Risser directs the work of the Building Technologies office to help create a self-sustaining market for building energy efficiency, including developing innovative advanced technologies, promoting highly efficient buildings and homes, and accelerating the adoption of building codes and equipment standards. Timothy Unruh Federal Energy Management Program Office Director Tim Unruh oversees the implementation of policy and actions that result in energy efficiency implementation, renewable energy adoption, and reduction in energy and water use in federal government operations. Mark Johnson Advanced Manufacturing Office Director Mark Johnson is the Director of the Advanced Manufacturing Office, which focuses on creating a fertile innovation environment for advanced manufacturing, enabling vigorous domestic development of new energy-efficient manufacturing processes and materials technologies to reduce the energy intensity and life-cycle energy consumption of manufactured products. Anna Garcia Weatherization and Intergovernmental Programs Office Director Anna Garcia provides leadership to maximize the benefits of energy efficiency and renewable energy through technology deployment, accessing new partnerships and resources, and communications and outreach activities. Strategic Program Leaders Karla Olsen Communications Director Karla Olsen leads EERE's corporate communications team in managing EERE's web enterprise, traditional and social media presence, executive and internal communications activities, public awareness activities, inquiries and correspondence, and other related efforts. Robert Sandoli International Director Rob Sandoli manages EERE bilateral and multilateral partnerships and projects, develops new international collaborations, and coordinates international efforts with other DOE offices, federal agencies, and international organizations. Kyle Winslow Legislative Affairs Director (Acting) Kyle Winslow partners with DOE's Office of Congressional Affairs, the Chief Financial Officer, and the budget office to serve as the primary liaison between EERE technology offices and congressional authorizing committees. His office also provides corporate guidance on congressional interaction and strategic advice on legislation relevant to EERE. Victor Kane National Laboratory Impact Initiative Director (Acting) Victor leads EERE's Lab Impact Initiative, focusing on the development and implementation of uniform policies and programs to accelerate the commercial impact of the Department of Energy's national laboratories. Mékell Mikell Stakeholder Engagement Director (Acting) Mékell Mikell is the Director of Stakeholder Engagement, promoting EERE's coordination and interaction with key external stakeholders to create opportunities to advance EERE's mission. Johanna Wolfson Technology-to-Market Director Johanna Wolfson directs EERE's Technology-to-Market Program to address challenges in moving new energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies into the marketplace. Eli Levine Clean Energy Manufacturing Initiative Director (Acting) Eli Levine leads the Clean Energy Manufacturing Initiative, an effort to strengthen U.S. clean energy manufacturing competitiveness by engaging with strategic partners. Support Office Leaders Office of Financial Management Karen Ray Budget Director As Budget Director, Karen Ray leads the development of EERE's corporate budget and oversees how it is executed. Business Operations Scott Hine Project Management and Coordination Director Scott Hine is responsible for informing and facilitating unified and highly effective EERE corporate planning and program implementation through the identification and deployment of active project management policies, procedures, best practices, and lessons learned. Jennifer Blankenheim Workforce Management Office Director Jennifer Blankenheim and her team are the lead for coordination with the Office of Human Capital, in addition to diversity, workforce strategy, talent management, facilities, and administrative support. All of these functions provide essential support to EERE's corporate business processes and mission. Derek Passarelli Golden Field Office Director Derek Passarelli leads EERE staff in Golden, Colorado in moving toward a low-carbon, energy-secure economy. He oversees Golden’s operations and support functions, as well as the management and operation contract with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory. John W. Meeker Procurement Services Deputy, Golden Field Office In his role as Deputy of Procurement Services at the Golden Field Office in the Office of EERE, John Meeker directs the procurement activity—both acquisition and financial assistance—for EERE programs and projects in virtually all technology areas. Timothy J. Meeks Business Services Director, Golden Field Office As Deputy Director of the Business Services Division, Tim Meeks oversees Golden's Legal, Environment, Human Resources, Laboratory Oversight, Finance, and Facilities functions. News & Blog Mission Leadership Budget EERE Offices Business Operations Strategic Programs Initiatives & Projects Success Stories Plans, Implementation, & Results Employment Opportunities FAQs Contact Us Careers & Internships EERE Home Contact EERE Energy.gov Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy Forrestal Building 1000 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20585 About this site Web Policies Privacy No Fear Act Whistleblower Protection Information Quality Open Gov Accessibility Energy Department Budget & Performance Directives, Delegations & Requirements FOIA Inspector General Privacy Program Small Business Federal Government The White House USA.gov
