#ThisURL#
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences/Zoology/Animal_Physiology.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/articles/Pasadena%2C_CA_Employment_Outlook%3A_A_Summary_of_Pasadena%27s_Job_Market_and_Local_Economy.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Walden+University
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences/Zoology/Animal_Physiology.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Iowa_State_University.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_a_College_Professor_Education_and_Career_Roadmap.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Animal Physiology
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Subject Categories  /  Biological and Biomedical Sciences  /  Zoology  /  Animal Physiology Biological and Biomedical Sciences Zoology Animal Behavior Entomology Wildlife Biology Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Subject Categories  /  Biological and Biomedical Sciences  /  Zoology  /  Animal Physiology Animal Physiology A degree in animal physiology can lead to opportunities in a wide variety of areas, including fisheries, veterinary schools and pharmaceutical research. If you're interested in learning more about the education and career options, continue reading. Inside Animal Physiology Animal physiology is the study of the internal physical and chemical functions of animals. Professionals in this field may explore the makeup of animals, including their genetics, their behaviors and their biological structure. Whether you're interested in learning about related degree programs, online animal courses or a career as an animal physiologist Study.com has the resources to help you make an educated decision about whether animal physiology is a good fit for you. Education Information Programs in animal physiology are most common at the baccalaureate level; however, both master's and doctoral degree programs exist. They teach students the factors that can provide animals with a better quality of life, endurance of weather extremes and resistance to environmental contaminants. Undergraduate courses in animal physiology consist of laboratory experimentation, on-site fieldwork and classroom instruction. Students study the physiology of many animals throughout the program. They also take courses in chemistry, cell and molecular physiology, genetics, human biology, ecology, evolution and conservation. They discover the difference between male and female animals, how hormones affect animal behavior and reproductive techniques. The articles below include information about degree programs in physiology and animal medical and care courses. Physiology Programs Animal Reproduction Programs Animal Biology Programs Animal Behavior Science Programs Doctorate in Physiology Distance Learning Options The following articles include courses and degree programs that may overlap with animal physiology. These programs can lead to many of the same career opportunities. Online Animal Courses Online Associate's in Animal Science Online Bachelor's in Zoology Online Wildlife Biology Programs Career Options Graduates with a degree in animal physiology may seek employment opportunities or advanced training in fisheries, animal research, veterinary medicine and pharmaceutical research. Careers for veterinarians and researchers may require additional education. The following careers represent a selection of the options available with a degree in animal physiology. They're in order by educational requirements. Zookeeper Wildlife Rehabilitation Jobs College Professor Animal Physiologist Veterinarian Employment Outlook and Salary Information According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, between 2012 and 2022 employment should increase by 15 percent for animal caretakers, including zookeepers; by 12 percent for veterinarians; by 9 percent for animal scientists; by 6 percent for foresters and by 5 percent for zoologists (www.bls.gov). As of May 2012, the median annual salary for veterinarians was $84,460. That same year, zoologists made $57,710, foresters made $55,950 and animal trainers made $25,270. Read more Animal Physiology Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Biology Lesson Plans: Physiology, Mitosis, Metric System Video Lessons Dr. Greg Chin, biology instructor and Instructional Coordinator for Study.com, explains how classroom teachers can incorporate... Schools for Aspiring Animal Nutritionists: How to Choose Animal nutrition is a branch of animal science that can be applied toward research and practical services. Undergraduate and graduate... Laboratory Animal Veterinarian: Job Description and Requirements Laboratory animal veterinarians require significant formal education. Learn about the education, job duties and licensure requirements to... Phd in Physiology Animal Colleges Animal Degree Animal Science Phd Animal Husbandry Degrees Animal Nurse: Job Description, Duties, Salary and Outlook Colleges with Physiology Programs: How to Choose Human Resources: How Does One Become a Human Resource Professional Learn how to become a human resources professional. Research the education, experience and career requirements for starting a career as a... Online MPA in Disaster and Emergency Management: Degree Overview Research online disaster and emergency management courses and programs. Find out what you can learn in these courses and what you'll need in... Information Technology Recruiter: Job Description and Requirements Veterinary Assistant: Online Diploma How to Earn a Bounty Hunter License: Info and Requirements Phoenix Career Guide: Fastest Growing Phoenix, AZ Careers Pasadena, CA Employment Outlook: Job Market & Economy Summary Public Health Programs in Massachusetts Most programs in public health programs are offered at the bachelor's or master's degree level in Massachusetts. Two schools with such... Top Ranked Medical Assisting Degree Programs - Houston TX Many schools in the Houston area have top ranking medical assisting programs. Read on to find out more about what these top schools have... What Does IT Take to Be an Artist Business Management Degrees Top Ranked Business Management Programs - Santa Ana CA Graphic Design Courses Top Rated School for Becoming a Graphic Designer - Austin TX Auto Mechanic Schools in New Hampshire Radiology School Top Ranked School for Degrees in Diagnostic Radiology - Tampa FL Animal Physiology Related Videos Exercise Sciences Career Video: Earning a Degree in Exercise Science and Fitness Studies Human Anatomy and Physiology Coursework Overview for the Medical Professions Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Arts in Health Care Administration Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS Health Science Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Bachelor BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4Penn Foster Career School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Non-Degree Career Diploma: Veterinary Assistant Certificate in Natural Health Care for Pets Certificate - Anatomy & Physiology Get Started with Penn Foster Career School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 5Iowa State University School Info School locations: Iowa (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Iowa State University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Undergraduate: Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Bioinformatics Botany Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology Animal Physiology Entomology Get Started with Iowa State University Research Iowa State University's Programs 6New York University School Info School locations: New York (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at New York University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Non-Degree: Certificate Post Degree Certificate: First Professional Certificate, Post Master's Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences General Biology Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology Animal Physiology Get Started with New York University Research New York University's Programs 7Walden University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 21 years of age or older and have completed some college or 24 years of age or older and a high school graduate for a Bachelor's Masters degree applicants must have a Bachelors Doctorate degree applicants must have a Masters degree School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Nursing Practice - General Master MS in Clinical Research Administration - General Master of Healthcare Administration - General Get Started with Walden University What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8University of Connecticut School Info School locations: Connecticut (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Connecticut include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Postbaccalaureate Certificate Undergraduate: Associate, Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Bioinformatics Botany Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology Animal Physiology Entomology Get Started with University of Connecticut Research University of Connecticut's Degree Programs 9Cornell University School Info School locations: New York (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at Cornell University include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Non-Degree: Coursework Undergraduate: Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Bioinformatics Botany Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology Animal Physiology Entomology Get Started with Cornell University Research Cornell University's Programs 10University of Arizona School Info School locations: Arizona (1 campus) Program Info Areas of study you may find at University of Arizona include: Graduate: Doctorate, First Professional Degree, Master Post Degree Certificate: Post Master's Certificate Undergraduate: Bachelor Biological and Biomedical Sciences Bioinformatics Botany Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology Animal Physiology Entomology Get Started with University of Arizona Research University of Arizona's Programs Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Narrow your preferred subject area Bioinformatics Botany Cellular Biology and Anatomical Sciences Ecology and Evolutionary Biology General Biology Genetics Microbiology and Immunology Molecular Biology, Biochemistry and Biophysics Pharmacology and Toxicology Physiology and Related Sciences Zoology Select your specialty subject area Animal Behavior Animal Physiology Entomology Wildlife Biology What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University Master of Arts in Health Care Administration What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University BS Health Science What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 Grand Canyon University BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 4 Penn Foster Career School Career Diploma: Veterinary Assistant Certificate in Natural Health Care for Pets Certificate - Anatomy & Physiology View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade High School Diploma/GED Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree PhD 5 Iowa State University 6 New York University 7 Walden University Doctor of Nursing Practice - General MS in Clinical Research Administration - General Master of Healthcare Administration - General View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Still in high school High school graduate/GED Some College Associate's Degree Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree 8 University of Connecticut 9 Cornell University 10 University of Arizona Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
