#ThisURL#
http://study.com/videos/Following_Up_After_a_Job_Interview_Video.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/should_i_major_in_electrical_engineering_-_quiz_self-assessment_test.html
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/articles/Hotel_Guest_Service_Agent_Job_Description_and_Education_Requirements.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/articles/Students_Use_Video_Games_to_Stay_in_Shape.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Following Up After a Job Interview Video
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies   Video Library  /  Job Interviewing Videos  /  Following Up After a Job Interview Video Following Up After a Job Interview Video Related Videos The Basic Sections of a Resume Video How to List Your Accomplishments in a Resume Video When to Use a Self-Assessment With Your Job Search Video Self-Assessments for Choosing a Career Path Video Following Up After a Job Interview Video Transcript Following up after a job interview is essential. After watching this video, you'll establish the basics of keeping in contact with your prospective employer, demonstrating interest in the position and maximizing your chances of hire. Initial Follow Up After the Job Interview This video establishes the importance of following up after your job interview. You should do this after 24 hours by sending a letter, card or email. Make sure you personalize responses, which communicates your interest in the job. Do so within a sense of the company's culture. Verify names and titles of everyone you interviewed with. You can check these by contacting the administration of the company. Send a customized thank you to everyone conducting your job interview. Never send a form letter. Points to Think About After Your Job Interview Ask yourself if you want a job at this time, at this place and with these people. If so, you should prepare to stay engaged with your prospective employer. Begin by having your contacts who work with or in the company put in a good word. Having someone who can put in a good word to follow up with your job interview goes a long way. Continual Follow Up After Your Job Interview It is vital that you continue to campaign after your job interview. Maintain contact. Continue to send personalized contacts to your prospective employer to demonstrate continued interest and commitment. This can be done by obtaining more information about the company and sending more ideas, feedback or input to your interviewer. Stay in contact. Find out if they plan to conduct a second job interview. Following Up After a Job Interview Video Related Articles RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Why Work-Study Students Should Take Their College Job Seriously A college job may seem like a simple means to an end, a way to cover your bills and school expenses while you make your way through... Students: Use Video Games to Stay in Shape Are you a video game nut? It's hard not to be with so many great games out on the market today. But how do you avoid becoming the... Atmospheric Scientist: Job Duties, Outlook and Salary Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an atmospheric scientist. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as... How Applying for College Is Different Than Applying for a Job By the time you reach senior year of high school, you may have some experience applying for jobs. The job application process can be... Which College Majors Will Guarantee You a Job After Graduation? Many college grads hitting the job market have been frustrated by a bad economy. However, not all fields have high levels of unemployment... Video Production Certificate Programs in North Carolina Career Education in Video Production Universities Offering a Degree in Video Productions Video Production College Video Editing Degree MBA Teachings Online Video Distance Learning Degree Program in Video Production Get a Part-Time Job in College - Even if You Don't Need the Cash 10 Things College Seniors Should Do Before Starting Your Job Search How Good Manners Can Help You Land a Great Job What To Do Before Applying for Your First Job After College When Should College Seniors Start Looking for a Job? Hotel Guest Service Agent: Job Description and Education Requirements Working as a hotel guest service agent requires no formal education. Learn about the training, job duties and experience needed to see if... Orlando, FL Careers: Top Career Opportunities in Orlando, Florida Orlando, Florida (FL) is one of the largest cities in the Sunshine State. It offers many growing career opportunities for avid job seekers.... How to Become a Tattoo Artist: Career Guide Web Page Designer: Online Diploma Chartered Accountant Job, Salary and Career Information Should I Major in Electrical Engineering? - Quiz & Self-Assessment Test Online Food Science Degree Program Information Top Human Resource Management Degree Programs - Colorado Springs CO Students interested in studying human resource management in the Colorado Springs area have several schools to choose from. Read about the... HVAC Education Aspiring HVAC specialists can receive educational preparation at a number of levels. Continue reading for information about career... Top Rated School with Training Programs and Degrees in Tourism and Travel Services Management - Atlanta GA Professional Chef Training Top Ranked Culinary Arts Program - Chicago Illinois Maryland Graduate Programs Top Ranked Construction Management Degree Programs - Denver CO Juvenile Probation Officers Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 Baker College Online Doctorate in Business Administration MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management BS in Psychology BS in Criminal Justice BBA (Accelerated Program) BS in Computer Science BS in Mobile Application Software Engineering BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Associate of Business Administration AAS in Computer Programming Associate of Business in Accounting AAS Information Technology (IT Support Specialist) Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Project Management and Planning When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 7 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Penn Foster High School Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry View more What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 9 University of Delaware M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Show more schools… Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
