#ThisURL#
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_Bachelor_of_Arts_in_Christian_Studies_with_an_Emphasis_in_Biblical_Studies.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html#tab3
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Grand+Canyon+University
http://study.com/program/Grand_Canyon_University_Bachelor_of_Arts_in_Christian_Studies_with_an_Emphasis_in_Biblical_Studies.html#tuitionStartDates
http://study.com/
http://study.com/directory/school/Grand_Canyon_University.html#tab0
#Title#
Grand Canyon University | Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies
#Content#
WHY US? MORE DEGREES Grand Canyon University  /  Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies Students enrolled in Grand Canyon University's Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies program have an opportunity to study systematic theology, the history of Christianity, and other relevant topics. Read on to learn more about the Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies program here. Tuition & Aid Start Dates Official Program Name: Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies School Offering Program: Grand Canyon University Degree Level: Bachelor's Program Prerequisites: Applicants to Grand Canyon University's Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies program should express an interest in studying Christianity. Furthermore, it is beneficial if applicants have solid research and communication skills. Program Description: Students enrolled in Grand Canyon University's Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies program are required to complete a core Christian studies sequence as well as general education courses. Some of the core courses included in the curriculum include: Hebrew poetical and wisdom literature, contemporary theology, history of Christianity, and biblical interpretation and application. The degree program is designed to build communication and leadership skills. Most of the general education courses are completed prior to the emphasis-area courses. Learning Format: Campus and Online Total Credits Required: 120 credits Financial Aid: Federal financial aid, including loans, grants and scholarships, is available to qualifying students. Students can find out about scholarships and other financial aid opportunities from a Grand Canyon University Enrollment Counselor. Required Courses for a Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies: Program and course requirements are subject to change. Contact Grand Canyon University to confirm the most accurate information before enrolling in a program. Some courses and programs may not be available at all campuses. Required Courses BIB 104: Old Testament Historical Perspectives (4 credits) BIB 105: New Testament Historical Perspectives (4 credits) INT 244: World Religions (4 credits) PHI 305: Ethical Thinking in the Liberal Arts (4 credits) BIB 355: Biblical Interpretation and Application (4 credits) BIB 351: Moses and the Prophets (4 credits) BIB 354: Jesus and His Interpreters (4 credits) MIN 350: Spiritual Formation for Christian Leaders (4 credits) BIB 365: Old Testament Writings (4 credits) BIB 370: Hebrew Poetical and Wisdom Literature (4 credits) HTH 359: Systematic Theology (4 credits) HTH 379: History of Christianity (4 credits) HTH 469: Contemporary Theology (4 credits) CHL 465: Christian Leadership in the 21st Century (4 credits) BIB 380: Pauline Epistles (4 credits) BIB 455: Hebrew Prophets (4 credits) BIB 465: The General Epistles (4 credits) BIB 475: Johannine Literature (4 credits) Post-Graduation Opportunities Furthering Your Education: When a student has completed Grand Canyon University's Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies program, he or she has the opportunity to pursue a master's degree in a relevant field. Some of the courses that may be offered in a master's degree program include narrative preaching, professional ethics, pastoral counseling, and systematic theology. Some possible degree programs include: Master of Arts in Ministry Leadership Master of Divinity Master of Arts in Spiritual Formation and Discipleship Master of Arts in Biblical Studies Career Paths: Graduates of Grand Canyon University's Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an emphasis in Biblical Studies program have an opportunity to pursue a variety of jobs in the field. Job candidates should be able to express strong communication and interpersonal skills. Possible employers may include community centers, churches, and overseas ministry programs. Positions that graduates could pursue include: Youth development assistant Church administrator Pastoral assistant Missionary For more information about our graduation rates, the median debt of students who completed the program, and other important information, please visit our website at gcu.edu/disclosures. Tuition, Financial Aid & Start Dates Since every student is different, there isn't a "one size fits all" for school information. Start dates and tuition often vary between selected programs, and financial aid opportunities are unique to each student's circumstances. Complete the form to the right to get the most up-to-date and accurate information based on your selected program and circumstances. Still have questions? Complete this form to request more info and get your answers and advice. Get your customized answers Simply complete the form below to get program details, tuition, start dates, financial aid, and how to choose the right program for you. What is your highest level of education? --- Select One --- High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) Country: --- Select One --- United States Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada Chile Egypt Germany Guam Hong Kong Indonesia - Federated States of Iraq Israel Japan Jordan Korea - Democratic People's Rep Kuwait Luxembourg Mexico Netherlands Northern Mariana Islands Oman Puerto Rico Qatar Russian Federation Samoa Saudi Arabia Singapore Spain Switzerland Turkey United Arab Emirates United Kingdom (Great Britain) Virgin Islands - U.S. Postal Code: What program are you interested in? --- Select One --- DBA - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Behavioral Health Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Christian Ministry Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Higher Education Leadership Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership - Organizational Development Ed.D. in Organizational Leadership in - K-12 Leadership EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education EdS in K-12 Leadership Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Integrating Technology, Learning, and Psychology Ph.D. in General Psychology - Performance Psychology M.A. in Autism Spectrum Disorders M.A. in Reading with an Emphasis in Elementary Education M.A. in Reading with an Emphasis in Secondary Education M.B.A. with an Emphasis in Project Management M.B.A. with an Emphasis in Sports Business M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.Ed. in Early Childhood M.Ed. in Educational Administration M.Ed. in Educational Leadership M.Ed. in Elementary Education M.Ed. in Secondary Education M.Ed. in Special Education: Cross-Categorical M.Ed. in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Christian Counseling M.S. in Christian Counseling of Substance Use and Addictive Disorders M.S. in Nursing: Nursing Education M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Marriage and Family Therapy M.S. in Professional Counseling with an Emphasis in Trauma M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Forensic Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Health Psychology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Life Coaching MA in Christian Studies: Christian Leadership MA in Christian Studies: Pastoral Ministry MA in Christian Studies: Youth Ministry MA in Curriculum and Instruction MA in Gifted Education MA in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages MBA MBA and MS in Leadership (Dual Degree) MBA and MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems (Bridge) MBA and MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems (dual degree) MBA: Accounting MBA: Finance MBA: Health Systems Management MBA: Leadership MBA: Marketing MBA: Strategic Human Resource Management MS in Accounting MS in Addiction Counseling MS in Criminal Justice: Law Enforcement MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Health Care Administration MS in Health Care Informatics MS in Leadership MS in Leadership: Disaster Preparedness & Executive Fire Leadership MS in Nursing with an Emphasis in Leadership in Health Care Systems (Bridge) MS in Nursing: Health Care Informatics MS in Nursing: Health Care Informatics (Bridge) MS in Nursing: Nursing Education MS in Nursing: Nursing Leadership in Health Care Systems MS in Nursing: Public Health MS in Nursing: Public Health (Bridge) MS in Professional Counseling MS in Psychology: General Psychology MS in Psychology: Industrial & Organizational Psychology Master of Divinity Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Global Ministry Master of Divinity with an Emphasis in Worship Leadership Master of Public Administration - Government and Policy Master of Public Administration - Health Care Management Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Leadership and Entrepreneurship B.A. in Advertising and Public Relations with an Emphasis in Advertising Design B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Global Ministry B.A. in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Philosophy B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in State and Local Public Policy B.S. in Computer Programming B.S. in Educational Studies (Does Not Lead to Teacher Licensure) B.S. in Information Technology B.S. in Information Technology with an Emphasis in Cyber Security B.S. in Public Safety and Emergency Management BA in Christian Studies BA in Christian Studies - Worship Leadership BA in Communications BA in Digital Film - Production BA in Digital Film - Screenwriting BA in English Literature BA in History BS in Accounting BS in Applied Management BS in Business Admin. BS in Business Admin. - Business Intelligence BS in Counseling - Addiction, Chemical Dependency, and Substance Abuse BS in Early Childhood BS in Elementary Education / Special Education (Dual Major) BS in Elementary Education: English BS in Elementary Education: Math BS in Elementary Education: Science BS in Entrepreneurial Studies BS in Finance and Economics BS in Health Care Administration BS in Health Sciences: Professional Development & Advanced Patient Care BS in Justice Studies BS in Marketing BS in Nursing (Registered Nurse - R.N. to BSN) BS in Psychology BS in Sociology BS in Sports Management Bachelor of Arts in Advertising and Public Relations with an emphasis in Advertising Design Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Biblical Studies Bachelor of Arts in Christian Studies with an Emphasis in Youth Ministry Bachelor of Arts in English for Secondary Education Bachelor of Arts in English with an Emphasis in Professional Writing Bachelor of Arts in History for Secondary Education (ITL) Bachelor of Arts in History with an Emphasis in Public History Bachelor of Science in Applied Business Analytics Bachelor of Science in Applied Business Information Systems Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Childhood and Adolescence Disorders Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Family Dynamics Bachelor of Science in Behavioral Health Science with an Emphasis in Trauma Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education with an Emphasis in English as a Second Language Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management Bachelor of Science in Math for Secondary Education Bachelor of Science in Sociology with an Emphasis in Social Work Graduate Certificate of Completion in Elementary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching Graduate Certificate of Completion in Secondary Education Teacher Preparation (FL) Do you have your Bachelor's degree, and are you certified to teach K - 12? --- Select One --- Yes, I am No, I am not Are you a licensed Health Care Professional with an Associate's Degree? --- Select One --- Yes, I am No, I am not Do you possess a current unencumbered, unrestricted license as a registered nurse in the state where you are employed as an RN? --- Select One --- Yes No Do you have at least 5 years of management/leadership experience? --- Select One --- Yes, I do No, I do not 99% of jobs with a median salary of $75k+ require a Bachelor's Degree or higher. (Source: BLS.gov/ooh) Email: Zip Code: Your Name First Name: Last Name: 94% of college-bound high school students said it was important to communicate with colleges during the search process. (Source: Noel-Levitz 2012 trend study) Contact Information Address: City: State: --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska American Samoa Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Guam,US Territory Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Northern Mariana Islands Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virgin Islands Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. You're Almost Done Primary Phone: Don't worry, we value your privacy. Your phone number is not shared with other schools. Secondary Phone: If you only have one phone number, please enter it again here. By submitting this form, I agree to be contacted via email, text, and/or telephone, at the information above using an automated technology, regarding the educational program I selected at Grand Canyon University. This consent is not required to attend Grand Canyon University. Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. For comprehensive consumer information click here For program disclosure information please click here GCU Online offers cutting edge curriculum, and you'll be able apply what you learn to your job-immediately. Best of all, your can earn your desired degree in less than two years and graduate with few financial restraints. That's because Grand Canyon University Online has developed an accelerated process for earning your degree while saving you more than 50% off your tuition , when compared to other universities. In addition, other financial options, including financial aid, are available to those who qualify. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © copyright 2003-2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
