#ThisURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2014.html#tt2278388
#SubURL#
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-action-movies.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1940-1949.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2008.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1950-1959.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2000-2009.html
http://goodmovieslist.com
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1960-1969.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2011.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-2010-2019.html
http://goodmovieslist.com/best-movies/best-movies-of-1970-1979.html
#Title#
Best Movies of 2014 to Watch - Good Movies List
#Content#
Good Movies List Best Movies of 2014 Best 250 movies Oscar winners Palme d'Or winners Best TV mini-series New movies in theaters Best movies of 2015 Best movies of 2014 Best movies of 2013 Best movies of 2012 Best movies of 2011 Best movies of 2010 Best movies of 2009 Best movies of 2008 Action movies Adventure movies Animation movies Biography movies Comedy movies Crime movies Disney movies Documentary movies Drama movies Erotic movies Family movies Fantasy movies Film-Noir movies History movies Horror movies Independent movies Music movies Musical movies Mystery movies Romance movies Sci-Fi movies Short movies Sport movies Thriller movies War movies Western movies 2010-2016 movies 2000-2009 movies 1990-1999 movies 1980-1989 movies 1970-1979 movies 1960-1969 movies 1950-1959 movies 1940-1949 movies 1930-1939 movies 1920-1929 movies Good Movies List homepage Movie quotes About this site Privacy policy Mark this movie as seen or wanted #1 Interstellar 2014 Mankind was born on Earth. It was never meant to die here. Director: Christopher Nolan. Cast: Matthew McConaughey, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Michael Caine, Casey Affleck, Ellen Burstyn, Matt Damon, John Lithgow, Timothee Chalamet, Mackenzie Foy, Wes Bentley, Bill Irwin, Topher Grace, David Oyelowo, David Gyasi. Overview: Interstellar chronicles the adventures of a group of explorers who make use of a newly discovered wormhole to surpass the limitations on human space travel and conquer the vast distances involved in an interstellar voyage. Genres: Drama, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 49m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #2 Whiplash 2014 The road to greatness can take you to the edge. Director: Damien Chazelle. Cast: Miles Teller, J.K. Simmons, Melissa Benoist, Austin Stowell, Jayson Blair, Kavita Patil, Paul Reiser. Overview: Under the direction of a ruthless instructor, a talented young drummer begins to pursue perfection at any cost, even his humanity. Genres: Drama, Music. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 45m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #3 PK 2014 Peekay hai hum Peekay Director: Rajkumar Hirani. Cast: Aamir Khan, Anushka Sharma, Sushant Singh Rajput, Boman Irani, Sanjay Dutt. Overview: A stranger in the city asks questions no one has asked before. Known only by his initials, P.K.'s innocent questions and childlike curiosity will take him on a journey of love, laughter and letting-go. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 33m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #4 Mommy 2014 Director: Xavier Dolan. Cast: Anne Dorval, Antoine-Olivier Pilon, Suzanne Clément, Patrick Huard. Overview: A widowed single mother, raising her violent son alone, finds new hope when a mysterious neighbor inserts herself into their household. Genre: Drama. Country: Canada. Runtime: 2h 20m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #5 Gone Girl 2014 You don't know what you've got 'til it's... Director: David Fincher. Cast: Ben Affleck, Rosamund Pike, Tyler Perry, Neil Patrick Harris, Missi Pyle, Patrick Fugit, Kim Dickens, Casey Wilson, Kathleen Rose Perkins, Emily Ratajkowski, Scoot McNairy, Boyd Holbrook, Lola Kirke, Carrie Coon. Overview: With his wife's disappearance having become the focus of an intense media circus, a man sees the spotlight turned on him when it's suspected that he may not be innocent. Genres: Drama, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 29m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #6 Wild Tales 2014 Relatos salvajes Director: Damián Szifrón. Cast: Ricardo Darín, Leonardo Sbaraglia, Darío Grandinetti, Erica Rivas, Erica Rivas, Nancy Dupláa, María Onetto , María Onetto , Rita Cortese, Rita Cortese. Overview: A story about love deception, the return of the past, a tragedy, or even the violence contained in an everyday detail, appear themselves to push them towards the abyss, into the undeniable pleasure of losing control. Genres: Comedy, Drama, Thriller. Countries: Argentina, Spain. Runtime: 2h 5m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #7 Kingsman: The Secret Service February 2015 PUT THE KING, BACK IN KINGSMAN! Director: Matthew Vaughn. Cast: Taron Egerton, Colin Firth, Samuel L. Jackson, Michael Caine, Mark Strong, Sofia Boutella, Sophie Cookson, Jack Davenport, Mark Hamill, Geoff Bell, Samantha Zoe Womack, Tom Prior, Jaymes Butler, Corey Johnson, Neve Gachev. Overview: The Secret Service tells the story of a super-secret spy organization that recruits an unrefined but promising street kid into the agency's ultra-competitive training program just as a global threat emerges from a twisted tech genius. Genres: Action, Adventure, Comedy, Crime. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #8 Guardians of the Galaxy 2014 All heroes start somewhere. Director: James Gunn. Cast: Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Dave Bautista, Bradley Cooper, Vin Diesel, Lee Pace, Michael Rooker, Karen Gillan, Djimon Hounsou, John C. Reilly, Glenn Close, Benicio del Toro, Josh Brolin, Ophelia Lovibond, Laura Haddock. Overview: A futuristic team of superheroes protect the galaxy from danger. A jet pilot gets stranded in space, and must unite a diverse team of aliens to form a squad capable of defeating cosmic threats. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #9 The Imitation Game 2014 Director: Morten Tyldum. Cast: Benedict Cumberbatch, Keira Knightley, Mark Strong, Rory Kinnear, Charles Dance, Allen Leech, Matthew Beard, Matthew Goode, Tuppence Middleton, Steven Waddington, Hayley Joanne Bacon, Tom Goodman-Hill, Hannah Flynn, Matthew Beard, Ancuta Breaban. Overview: Based on the real life story of legendary cryptanalyst Alan Turing, the film portrays the nail-biting race against time by Turing and his brilliant team of code-breakers at Britain's top-secret Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park, during the darkest days of World War II. Genres: Drama, History, Thriller, War. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #10 The Grand Budapest Hotel 2014 Director: Wes Anderson. Cast: Ralph Fiennes, Tony Revolori, F. Murray Abraham, Mathieu Amalric, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Harvey Keitel, Jude Law, Bill Murray, Edward Norton, Saoirse Ronan, Jason Schwartzman, Léa Seydoux, Tilda Swinton. Overview: The Grand Budapest Hotel tells of a legendary concierge at a famous European hotel between the wars and his friendship with a young employee who becomes his trusted protégé. The story involves the theft and recovery of a priceless Renaissance painting, the battle for an enormous family fortune and the slow and then sudden upheavals that transformed Europe during the first half of the 20th century. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Countries: Germany, United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 1h 39m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #11 Boyhood 2014 Director: Richard Linklater. Cast: Ellar Coltrane, Patricia Arquette, Ethan Hawke, Lorelei Linklater, Tamara Jolaine, Zoe Graham, Sam Dillon, Nick Krause, Shane Graham. Overview: The film tells a story of a divorced couple trying to raise their young son. The story follows the boy for twelve years, from first grade at age 6 through 12th grade at age 17-18, and examines his relationship with his parents as he grows. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 44m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #12 X-Men: Days of Future Past 2014 To save the future, they must alter the past Director: Bryan Singer. Cast: Patrick Stewart, James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender, Ian McKellen, Jennifer Lawrence, Nicholas Hoult, Hugh Jackman, Ellen Page, Shawn Ashmore, Peter Dinklage, Halle Berry, Booboo Stewart, Fan Bingbing, Daniel Cudmore, Adan Canto. Overview: The ultimate X-Men ensemble fights a war for the survival of the species across two time periods in X-MEN: DAYS OF FUTURE PAST. The beloved characters from the original “X-Men” film trilogy join forces with their younger selves from “X-Men: First Class,” in an epic battle that must change the past – to save our future. Genres: Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Science Fiction. Country: Canada. Runtime: 2h 11m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #13 The Raid 2 2014 The Raid 2: Berandal It's Not Over Yet Director: Gareth Evans. Cast: Iko Uwais, Arifin Putra, Tio Pakusodewo, Oka Antara, Julie Estelle, Ken'ichi Endô, Kazuki Kitamura, Donny Alamsyah, Alek Abbad, Very Tri Yulisman, Yayan Ruhian, Ryuhei Matsuda, Roy Marten, Epy Kusnandar, Cok Simbara. Overview: After fighting his way through an apartment building populated by an army of dangerous criminals and escaping with his life, SWAT team member Rama goes undercover, joining a powerful Indonesian crime syndicate to protect his family and uncover corrupt members of his own force. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Country: Indonesia. Runtime: 2h 30m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #14 The Fault in Our Stars 2014 Director: Josh Boone. Cast: Shailene Woodley, Ansel Elgort, Willem Dafoe, Nat Wolff, Laura Dern, Sam Trammell, Mike Birbiglia, Emily Peachey. Overview: Despite the tumor-shrinking medical miracle that has bought her a few years, Hazel has never been anything but terminal, her final chapter inscribed upon diagnosis. But when a patient named Augustus Waters suddenly appears at Cancer Kid Support Group, Hazel's story is about to be completely rewritten. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 5m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #15 How to Train Your Dragon 2 2014 Director: Dean DeBlois. Cast: Jay Baruchel, Gerard Butler, Kristen Wiig, Jonah Hill, Cate Blanchett, Djimon Hounsou, Kit Harington, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, T. J. Miller, America Ferrera, Craig Ferguson. Overview: The thrilling second chapter of the epic How To Train Your Dragon trilogy brings back the fantastical world of Hiccup and Toothless five years later. While Astrid, Snotlout and the rest of the gang are challenging each other to dragon races (the island's new favorite contact sport), the now inseparable pair journey through the skies, charting unmapped territories and exploring new worlds. When one of their adventures leads to the discovery of a secret ice cave that is home to hundreds of new wild dragons and the mysterious Dragon Rider, the two friends find themselves at the center of a battle to protect the peace. Genres: Action, Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Fantasy, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #16 Birdman 2014 Director: Alejandro González Iñárritu. Cast: Michael Keaton, Zach Galifianakis, Edward Norton, Emma Stone, Naomi Watts, Amy Ryan, Andrea Riseborough, Merritt Wever, Lindsay Duncan. Overview: A fading actor (Michael Keaton) best known for his portrayal of a popular superhero attempts to mount a comeback by appearing in a Broadway play. As opening night approaches, his attempts to become more altruistic, rebuild his career, and reconnect with friends and family prove more difficult than expected. Lindsay Duncan, Zach Galifianakis, and Edward Norton co-star in this black comedy from Biutiful director Alejandro González Iñárritu. Genres: Comedy, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 59m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #17 Big Hero 6 2014 Directors: Don Hall, Chris Williams. Cast: Scott Adsit, Ryan Potter, Daniel Henney, T.J. Miller, Jamie Chung, Damon Wayans Jr., Génesis Rodríguez, James Cromwell, Alan Tudyk, Maya Rudolph, Abraham Benrubi, Katie Lowes, Billy Bush, Dan Gerson, Paul Briggs. Overview: The special bond that develops between plus-sized inflatable robot Baymax, and prodigy Hiro Hamada, who team up with a group of friends to form a band of high-tech heroes. Genres: Action, Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 42m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #18 Edge of Tomorrow 2014 Live, Die, Repeat Director: Doug Liman. Cast: Emily Blunt, Tom Cruise, Bill Paxton, Charlotte Riley, Lee Asquith-Coe, Jonas Armstrong, Kick Gurry, Tony Way, Dragomir Mrsic, Deborah Rosan, Madeleine Mantock, Marianne Jean-Baptiste, Noah Taylor, Jeremy Piven, Brendan Gleeson. Overview: Lt. Col. Bill Cage (Cruise) is an officer who has never seen a day of combat when he is unceremoniously demoted and then dropped into combat. Cage is killed within minutes, managing to take an alpha alien down with him. But he awakens back at the beginning of the same day and is forced to fight and die again... and again - as physical contact with the alien has thrown him into a time loop. Genres: Action, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 53m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #19 Nightcrawler 2014 The City Shines Brightest at Night Director: Dan Gilroy. Cast: Jake Gyllenhaal, Bill Paxton, Rene Russo, Kevin Rahm, Riz Ahmed, Kathleen York, Ann Cusack. Overview: A driven young man (Gyllenhaal) stumbles upon the underground world of L.A. freelance crime journalism. Genres: Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 57m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #20 The LEGO Movie 2014 Directors: Phil Lord, Chris Miller. Cast: Elizabeth Banks, Channing Tatum, Morgan Freeman, Chris Pratt, Will Arnett, Jonah Hill, Will Ferrell, Cobie Smulders, Liam Neeson, Alison Brie, Nick Offerman, Charlie Day, Dave Franco, Will Forte, Anthony Daniels. Overview: An ordinary Lego mini-figure, mistakenly thought to be the extraordinary MasterBuilder, is recruited to join a quest to stop an evil Lego tyrant from gluing the universe together. Genres: Action, Animation, Comedy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #21 Captain America: The Winter Soldier 2014 In heroes we trust. Directors: Joe Russo, Anthony Russo. Cast: Chris Evans, Samuel L. Jackson, Sebastian Stan, Anthony Mackie, Frank Grillo, Scarlett Johansson, Cobie Smulders, Toby Jones, Emily VanCamp, Hayley Atwell, Georges St. Pierre, Robert Redford, Maximiliano Hernández, Alan Dale, Stan Lee. Overview: After the cataclysmic events in New York with The Avengers, Steve Rogers, aka Captain America is living quietly in Washington, D.C. and trying to adjust to the modern world. But when a S.H.I.E.L.D. colleague comes under attack, Steve becomes embroiled in a web of intrigue that threatens to put the world at risk. Joining forces with the Black Widow, Captain America struggles to expose the ever-widening conspiracy while fighting off professional assassins sent to silence him at every turn. When the full scope of the villainous plot is revealed, Captain America and the Black Widow enlist the help of a new ally, the Falcon. However, they soon find themselves up against an unexpected and formidable enemy—the Winter Soldier. Genres: Action, Adventure, Science Fiction. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 8m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #22 The Theory of Everything 2014 Director: James Marsh. Cast: Felicity Jones, Emily Watson, Harry Lloyd, David Thewlis, Charlotte Hope, Adam Godley, Lesley Manville, Maxine Peake, Eddie Redmayne. Overview: A look at the relationship between the famous physicist Stephen Hawking and his wife. Genre: Drama. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 2h 3m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #23 Dawn of the Planet of the Apes 2014 One last chance for peace. Director: Matt Reeves. Cast: Andy Serkis, Jason Clarke, Toby Kebbell, Keri Russell, Judy Greer, Gary Oldman, Kodi Smit-McPhee, Terry Notary, Karin Konoval, Kirk Acevedo, Richard King, Lucky Johnson, Jocko Sims, Nick Thurston, Jon Eyez. Overview: A group of scientists in San Francisco struggle to stay alive in the aftermath of a plague that is wiping out humanity, while Caesar tries to maintain dominance over his community of intelligent apes. Genres: Science Fiction, Action, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 10m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #24 Fury 2014 Director: David Ayer. Cast: Brad Pitt, Shia LaBeouf, Logan Lerman, Jon Bernthal, Scott Eastwood, Jason Isaacs, Xavier Samuel, Michael Peña, Eugenia Kuzmina. Overview: Last months of World War II in April 1945. As the Allies make their final push in the European Theater, a battle-hardened U.S. Army sergeant in the 2nd Armored Division named Wardaddy (Brad Pitt) commands a Sherman tank called "Fury" and its five-man crew on a deadly mission behind enemy lines. Outnumbered and outgunned, Wardaddy and his men face overwhelming odds in their heroic attempts to strike at the heart of Nazi Germany. Genres: Action, Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 15m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #25 Selma 2014 Martin Luther King, Lyndon Baines Johnson and the civil rights marches that changed America. Director: Ava DuVernay. Cast: David Oyelowo, Tom Wilkinson, Carmen Ejogo, Andre Holland, Omar J. Dorsey, Alessandro Nivola, Giovanni Ribisi, Colman Domingo, Oprah Winfrey, Tim Roth, Common, Cuba Gooding Jr., Ruben Santiago-Hudson, Tessa Thompson, Lorraine Toussaint. Overview: "Selma," as in Alabama, the place where segregation in the South was at its worst, leading to a march that ended in violence, forcing a famous statement by President Lyndon B. Johnson that ultimately led to the signing of the Civil Rights Act. Genres: Drama, History. Countries: United Kingdom, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 7m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #26 It Follows March 2015 Director: David Robert Mitchell. Cast: Maika Monroe, Keir Gilchrist, Olivia Luccardi, Lili Sepe, Bailey Spry, Daniel Zovatto, Jake Weary. Overview: For 19-year-old Jay, fall should be about school, boys and weekends out at the lake. But after a seemingly innocent sexual encounter, she finds herself plagued by strange visions and the inescapable sense that someone, or something, is following her. Faced with this burden, Jay and her teenage friends must find a way to escape the horrors that seem to be only a few steps behind. Genre: Horror. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 40m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #27 What We Do in the Shadows 2014 Some interviews with some vampires Directors: Jemaine Clement, Taika Waititi. Cast: Taika Waititi, Jemaine Clement, Jonathan Brugh, Cori Gonzalez-Macuer, Stuart Rutherford, Jackie van Beek, Rhys Darby, Frank Habicht, Ian Harcourt, Madeleine Sami, Duncan Sarkies. Overview: Follow the lives of Viago, Deacon, and Vladislav - three flatmates who are just trying to get by and overcome life's obstacles-like being immortal vampires who must feast on human blood. Hundreds of years old, the vampires are finding that beyond sunlight catastrophes, hitting the main artery, and not being able to get a sense of their wardrobe without a reflection-modern society has them struggling with the mundane like paying rent, keeping up with the chore wheel, trying to get into nightclubs, and overcoming flatmate conflicts. Genres: Comedy, Horror. Country: New Zealand. Runtime: 1h 26m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #28 The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies 2014 Witness the defining chapter of the Middle-Earth saga Director: Peter Jackson. Cast: Martin Freeman, Ian McKellen, Richard Armitage, Aidan Turner, Orlando Bloom, John Bell, Dean O'Gorman, Lee Pace, Benedict Cumberbatch, Luke Evans, Cate Blanchett, Elijah Wood, Hugo Weaving, Manu Bennett, Christopher Lee. Overview: Mere seconds after the events of "Desolation", Bilbo and Company continue to claim a mountain of treasure that was guarded long ago: But with Gandalf the Grey also facing some formidable foes of his own, the Hobbit is outmatched when the brutal army of orcs led by Azog the Defiler returns. But with other armies such as the elves and the men of Lake-Town, which are unsure to be trusted, are put to the ultimate test when Smaug's wrath, Azog's sheer strength, and Sauron's force of complete ends attack. All in all, the trusted armies have two choices: unite or die. But even worse, Bilbo gets put on a knife edge and finds himself fighting with Hobbit warfare with all of his might for his dwarf-friends, as the hope for Middle-Earth is all put in Bilbo's hands. The one "precious" thing to end it all. Genres: Adventure, Fantasy. Countries: New Zealand, United States of America. Runtime: 2h 24m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #29 Still Alice 2014 Directors: Richard Glatzer, Wash Westmoreland. Cast: Julianne Moore, Alec Baldwin, Kristen Stewart, Kate Bosworth, Hunter Parrish, Victoria Cartagena, Erin Darke, Shane McRae, Stephen Kunken, Eha Urbsalu, Cat Lynch. Overview: Alice Howland, happily married with three grown children, is a renowned linguistics professor who starts to forget words. When she receives a devastating diagnosis, Alice and her family find their bonds tested. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 39m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #30 Calvary 2014 Director: John Michael McDonagh. Cast: Brendan Gleeson, Chris O'Dowd, Kelly Reilly, Aidan Gillen, Dylan Moran, Isaach De Bankolé, M. Emmet Walsh, Marie-Josée Croze, Domhnall Gleeson. Overview: After he is threatened during a confession, a good-natured priest must battle the dark forces closing in around him. Genre: Drama. Countries: United Kingdom, Ireland. Runtime: 1h 40m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #31 The Judge 2014 Director: David Dobkin. Cast: Robert Downey Jr., Robert Duvall, Vera Farmiga, Vincent D'Onofrio, Jeremy Strong, Billy Bob Thornton, Sarah Lancaster, David Krumholtz, Emma Tremblay, Ken Howard, Leighton Meester, Balthazar Getty, Grace Zabriskie, Ian Nelson. Overview: A successful lawyer returns to his hometown for his mother's funeral only to discover that his estranged father, the town's judge, is suspected of murder. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 21m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #32 The Good Lie 2014 Miracles are made by people who refuse to stop believing. Director: Philippe Falardeau. Cast: Reese Witherspoon, Corey Stoll, Thad Luckinbill, Sarah Baker, Sharon Conley, Maria Howell, Joshua Mikel, Mike Pniewski. Overview: A young refugee of the Sudanese Civil War who wins a lottery for relocation to the United States with three other lost boys. Encountering the modern world for the first time, they develop an unlikely friendship with a brash American woman assigned to help them, but the young man struggles to adjust to this new life and his feelings of guilt about the brother he left behind. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 50m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #33 American Sniper 2014 The most lethal sniper in U.S. history. Director: Clint Eastwood. Cast: Bradley Cooper, Sienna Miller, Jake McDorman, Luke Grimes, Kyle Gallner, Navid Negahban, Keir O'Donnell, Max Charles, Brando Eaton, Brian Hallisay, Sam Jaeger, E.R. Ruiz, Eric Close, Owain Yeoman, Marnette Patterson. Overview: A Navy SEAL recounts his military career, which includes more than 150 confirmed kills. Genres: Action, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 14m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #34 Paddington 2014 The Adventure Begins Director: Paul King. Cast: Nicole Kidman, Peter Capaldi, Ben Whishaw, Michael Gambon, Imelda Staunton, Sally Hawkins, Julie Walters, Hugh Bonneville, Jim Broadbent, Matt Lucas, Matt King, Samuel Joslin, Ancuta Breaban, Daniel Westwood, Dominic Coleman. Overview: A young Peruvian bear with a passion for all things British travels to London in search of a home. Finding himself lost and alone at Paddington Station, he begins to realize that city life is not all he had imagined - until he meets the kindly Brown family, who read the label around his neck ('Please look after this bear. Thank you.') and offer him a temporary haven. It looks as though his luck has changed until this rarest of bears catches the eye of a museum taxidermist... Genres: Comedy, Family. Country: United Kingdom. Runtime: 1h 35m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #35 The Hundred-Foot Journey 2014 Director: Lasse Hallström. Cast: Helen Mirren, Manish Dayal, Om Puri, Charlotte Lebon, Amit Shah, Rohan Chand, Juhi Chawla, Farzana Dua Elahe, Dillon Mitra, Jean Kinsell. Overview: A story centered around an Indian family who moves to France and opens a restaurant across the street from a Michelin-starred French restaurant. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 2m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #36 The Book of Life 2014 Director: Jorge R. Gutierrez. Cast: Diego Luna, Channing Tatum, Zoe Saldana, Christina Applegate, Eugenio Derbez, Cheech Marin, Gabriel Iglesias, Ron Perlman. Overview: "Romeo and Juliet" style love story set against a Mexican "Day of the Dead" backdrop. Genres: Adventure, Animation, Comedy, Fantasy, Romance, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 35m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #37 St. Vincent 2014 Director: Theodore Melfi. Cast: Bill Murray, Melissa McCarthy, Naomi Watts, Chris O'Dowd, Terrence Howard, Selenis Leyva, Nate Corddry, Katharina Damm, Scott Adsit, Kimberly Quinn, Lenny Venito, Alyssa Ruland, Alexandra Fong, Greta Lee. Overview: A young boy whose parents just divorced finds an unlikely friend and mentor in the misanthropic, bawdy, hedonistic, war veteran who lives next door. Genre: Comedy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 43m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #38 Chef 2014 Director: Jon Favreau. Cast: Jon Favreau, John Leguizamo, Bobby Cannavale, Emjay Anthony, Scarlett Johansson, Dustin Hoffman, Sofía Vergara, Oliver Platt, Amy Sedaris, Robert Downey Jr., Russell Peters, Chase Grimm, Will Schutze, Gloria Sandoval, Jose C. Hernandez. Overview: When Chef Carl Casper (Jon Favreau) suddenly quits his job at a prominent Los Angeles restaurant after refusing to compromise his creative integrity for its controlling owner (Dustin Hoffman), he is left to figure out what’s next. Finding himself in Miami, he teams up with his ex-wife (Sofia Vergara), his friend (John Leguizamo) and his son (Emjay Anthony) to launch a food truck. Genre: Comedy. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #39 The Equalizer 2014 Director: Antoine Fuqua. Cast: Denzel Washington, Chloë Grace Moretz, Marton Csokas, Andrew Farazi, Melissa Leo. Overview: In The Equalizer, Denzel Washington plays McCall, a former black ops commando who has faked his death to live a quiet life in Boston. When he comes out of his self-imposed retirement to rescue a young girl, Teri (Chloë Grace Moretz), he finds himself face to face with ultra-violent Russian gangsters. As he serves vengeance against those who brutalize the helpless, McCall’s desire for justice is reawakened. If someone has a problem, the odds are stacked against them, and they have nowhere else to turn, McCall will help. He is The Equalizer. Genres: Action, Crime, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 12m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #40 Wild 2014 Director: Jean-Marc Vallée. Cast: Reese Witherspoon, Laura Dern, Thomas Sadoski, Mo McRae, Michiel Huisman, Gaby Hoffmann, W. Earl Brown, Charles Baker, Kevin Rankin, Brian Van Holt, J.D. Evermore, Keene McRae. Overview: A woman with a tragic past decides to start her new life by hiking for one thousand miles on the Pacific Crest Trail. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 55m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #41 A Most Violent Year 2014 The result is never in question. Just the path you take to get there. Director: J.C. Chandor . Cast: Oscar Isaac, Jessica Chastain, Albert Brooks, Elyes Gabel, David Oyelowo, Alessandro Nivola, Catalina Sandino Moreno, Peter Gerety, Christopher Abbot, Ashley Williams, John Procaccino, Jerry Adler, Glenn Fleshler, Annie Funke, Matthew Maher. Overview: A thriller set in New York City during the winter of 1981, statistically one of the most violent years in the city's history, and centered on a the lives of an immigrant and his family trying to expand their business and capitalize on opportunities as the rampant violence, decay, and corruption of the day drag them in and threaten to destroy all they have built. Genres: Action, Crime, Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 5m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #42 John Wick 2014 Don't set him off. Directors: David Leitch, Chad Stahelski. Cast: Keanu Reeves, Adrianne Palicki, Bridget Regan, Willem Dafoe, Bridget Moynahan, Jason Isaacs, Alfie Allen, Lance Reddick, Dean Winters, Dean Winters, Bridget Moynahan, John Leguizamo. Overview: A former hit man is pursued by an old friend who was contracted to kill him. Genres: Action, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 41m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #43 Unbroken 2014 Director: Angelina Jolie. Cast: Jack O'Connell, Takamasa Ishihara, Garrett Hedlund, Jai Courtney, Domhnall Gleeson, Finn Wittrock, John Magaro, Alex Russell, Spencer Lofranco, Luke Treadaway, Sophie Dalah, John D'Leo, Morgan Griffin, Sean O'Donnell, Maddalena Ischiale. Overview: A chronicle of the life of Louis Zamperini, an Olympic runner who was taken prisoner by Japanese forces during World War II. Genres: Drama, War. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 17m. Rated: PG-13. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #44 22 Jump Street 2014 They're not 21 anymore Directors: Phil Lord, Chris Miller. Cast: Jonah Hill, Channing Tatum, Ice Cube, Dave Franco, Nick Offerman, Peter Stormare, Rob Riggle, Wyatt Russell, Richard Grieco, Amber Stevens, Jillian Bell, Jimmy Tatro. Overview: After making their way through high school (twice), big changes are in store for officers Schmidt (Jonah Hill) and Jenko (Channing Tatum) when they go deep undercover at a local college. But when Jenko meets a kindred spirit on the football team, and Schmidt infiltrates the bohemian art major scene, they begin to question their partnership. Now they don't have to just crack the case - they have to figure out if they can have a mature relationship. If these two overgrown adolescents can grow from freshmen into real men, college might be the best thing that ever happened to them. Genres: Action, Comedy, Crime. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 52m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #45 Foxcatcher 2014 Based on the shocking true story Director: Bennett Miller. Cast: Steve Carell, Channing Tatum, Mark Ruffalo, Sienna Miller, Vanessa Redgrave, Anthony Michael Hall, Guy Boyd, Brett Rice, Jackson Frazer, Samara Lee, Francis J. Murphy III, Jane Mowder. Overview: The story of Olympic Wrestling Champion Mark Schultz and how paranoid schizophrenic John duPont killed his brother, Olympic Champion Dave Schultz. Genres: Drama, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 14m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #46 2 States 2014 Director: Abhishek Varman. Cast: Alia Bhatt, Arjun Kapoor, Amrita Singh, Ronit Roy, Revathi. Overview: This is a story about a romantic journey of a culturally opposite couple - Krish Malhotra and Ananya Swaminathan. They meet at the IIM-Ahmedabad College and during the program they fall in love. Complications arise after the program comes to an end and they decide to get married. Krish and Ananya belong to two different states of India. Krish, a North Indian Punjabi boy from Delhi, and Ananya, a Tamilian Brahmin from Chennai. They take a conscious decision; they won't get married until their parents agree. Everything goes downhill when the parents meet. There is a cultural clash and the parents oppose the wedding. To convert their love story into a love marriage, the couple faces a tough battle in front of them. For it is easy to fight and rebel, but much harder to convince. Will Krish and Ananya's love for each other sustain the battles? Will they manage to convince their parents and make it to their wedding? The film thus is a humorous take on inter community marriages in India. Genres: Drama, Romance. Country: India. Runtime: 2h 29m. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #47 The Drop 2014 Director: Michaël R. Roskam. Cast: Tom Hardy, Noomi Rapace, James Gandolfini, Matthias Schoenaerts, John Ortiz, Ann Dowd, James Frecheville. Overview: A crime-drama centered around a lost pit bull, a wannabe scam artist, and a killing. Genres: Crime, Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: R. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #48 Million Dollar Arm 2014 Sometimes to win, sometimes you have to change the game Director: Craig Gillespie. Cast: Jon Hamm, Bill Paxton, Lake Bell, Suraj Sharma, Aasif Mandvi, Madhur Mittal, Pitobash, Alan Arkin, Bar Paly, Al Sapienza, Tzi Ma, Allyn Rachel. Overview: In a last-ditch effort to save his career, sports agent JB Bernstein (Jon Hamm) dreams up a wild game plan to find Major League Baseball’s next great pitcher from a pool of cricket players in India. He soon discovers two young men who can throw a fastball but know nothing about the game of baseball. Or America. It’s an incredible and touching journey that will change them all — especially JB, who learns valuable lessons about teamwork, commitment and family. Genre: Drama. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 2h 4m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #49 Maleficent 2014 Director: Robert Stromberg. Cast: Angelina Jolie, Elle Fanning, Juno Temple, Sharlto Copley, India Eisley, Miranda Richardson, Brenton Thwaites, Imelda Staunton, Sam Riley, Peter Capaldi, Jamie Sives, Lesley Manville, Toby Regbo, Kenneth Cranham. Overview: From Disney comes ‘Maleficent’ – the untold story of Disney’s most iconic villain from the 1959 classic ‘Sleeping Beauty’. A beautiful, pure-hearted young woman, Maleficent has an idyllic life growing up in a peaceable forest kingdom, until one day when an invading army threatens the harmony of the land. Maleficent rises to be the land’s fiercest protector, but she ultimately suffers a ruthful betrayal – an act that begins to turn her heart into stone. Bent on revenge, Maleficent faces an epic battle with the invading King’s successor and, as a result, places a curse upon his newborn infant Aurora. As the child grows, Maleficent realizes that Aurora hold the key to peace in the kingdom – and to Maleficent’s true happiness as well. Genres: Action, Adventure, Fantasy, Romance, Family. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 37m. Rated: PG. Mark this movie as seen or wanted #50 Non-Stop 2014 The hijacking was just the beginning. Director: Jaume Collet-Serra. Cast: Liam Neeson, Julianne Moore, Anson Mount, Michelle Dockery, Bar Paly, Corey Stoll, Scoot McNairy, Linus Roache, Jon Abrahams, Lupita Nyong'o. Overview: Bill Marks is a burned-out veteran of the Air Marshals service. He views the assignment not as a life-saving duty, but as a desk job in the sky. However, today's flight will be no routine trip. Shortly into the transatlantic journey from New York to London, he receives a series of mysterious text messages ordering him to have the government transfer $150 million into a secret account, or a passenger will die every 20 minutes. Genres: Action, Mystery, Thriller. Country: United States of America. Runtime: 1h 46m. Rated: PG-13. Load more movies Load all movies Continue with the following popular movie lists: Best 250 movies Oscar winners Best movies of 2015 2010-2016 movies Action movies New movies in theaters Copyright 2010 - 2016 Good Movies List I've seen this movie I want to see this movie I don't want to see this movie Clear this movie mark
