#ThisURL#
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/directory/school/Penn_Foster_High_School.html
http://study.com/directory/school/Penn_Foster_High_School.html#tab1
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html#tuitionStartDates
http://study.com/directory/school/Penn_Foster_High_School.html#tab0
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=Penn+Foster+High+School
http://study.com/
#Title#
Penn Foster | High School Diploma
#Content#
WHY US? MORE PROGRAMS Penn Foster High School  /  High School Diploma High School Diploma Penn Foster High School offers a high school diploma program to adults who would like to complete high school from home. Learn more about Penn Foster High School's high school diploma program here. Tuition & Aid Start Dates To speak to an enrollment counselor, please call 1-877-619-2902 Official Program Name: High School Diploma School Offering Program: Penn Foster High School Program Level: High School Diploma Program Description: Students enrolled in the accredited High School Diploma Program at Penn Foster High School have the opportunity to finish their high school education while working at their own pace. Students do not have to repeat classes that they took in high school; Penn Foster High School offers academic and financial credit for all recognized courses. High school courses are offered in core subject areas like English, math, history, and science, but elective and vocational classes are also available. Learning Format: Online Financial Aid: Penn Foster offers low tuition, 0% APR financing, and affordable monthly payments to be completed upon graduation. Required Courses for a High School Diploma: Degree program and course requirements are subject to change. Contact Penn Foster High School to confirm the most accurate information before enrolling in a program. Students who transfer credits may not need to take all of the classes listed below. English and Literacy Reading Skills (1 credit) Basic English (1 credit) Practical English (1 credit) Written Communication (1 credit) Literature (1 credit) Math General Math (1 credit) General Math II (1 credit) Consumer Math (1 credit) Social Studies Human Relations (1 credit) American History (1 credit) Civics (1 credit) World History (1 credit) Science Fitness and Nutrition (1 credit) Earth Science (1 credit) Biology (1 credit) Physical Science (1 credit) Electives Students are required to take five credits in electives. Electives include but are not limited to: Music Psychology Artist Economics General Science Auto Repair Technician Child Day Care Management Electrician Home Inspector Personal Computer Specialist Medical Office Assistant Teacher Aide Chemistry Spanish Trigonometry and Analytical Geometry American Literature Post-Graduation Opportunities Furthering Your Education: After earning a high school diploma, graduates can choose to earn a certificate, career diploma, or associate degree. Students should consider their career goals and areas of interest when pursuing advanced study. Career Paths: After earning a high school diploma, students can pursue entry-level jobs in a variety of industries. Common industries that employ high school graduates include the service and manufacturing sectors. Entry-level positions open to high school graduates include but are not limited to: Retail salesperson Building services worker Warehouse supervisor Home health aide Tuition, Financial Aid & Start Dates Since every student is different, there isn't a "one size fits all" for school information. Start dates and tuition often vary between selected programs, and financial aid opportunities are unique to each student's circumstances. Complete the form to the right to get the most up-to-date and accurate information based on your selected program and circumstances. Still have questions? Complete this form to request more info and get your answers and advice. Get your customized answers Call 1-877-619-2902 to speak with an enrollment counselor or simply complete the form below to get program details, tuition, start dates, financial aid, and how to choose the right program for you. When do you plan on starting? --- Select One --- Immediately 1-3 months 4-6 months 6 or more months Unknown On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) What is your highest level of education? --- Select One --- Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade On average, people with a Bachelor's Degree earn 63% more than those with only a High School Diploma. (Source: BLS.gov 2012 ep) What program are you interested in? --- Select One --- High School High School with Concentration in Building Technology-Carpentry High School with Concentration in Building Technology-Electrical High School with Concentration in Building Technology-Plumbing High School with Concentration in Health Care High School with Concentration in Information Systems Technology High School with Early College Courses What is your age? --- Select One --- 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 99% of jobs with a median salary of $75k+ require a Bachelor's Degree or higher. (Source: BLS.gov/ooh) What is your gender? --- Select One --- Male Female Email: Zip Code: Your Name First Name: Last Name: 94% of college-bound high school students said it was important to communicate with colleges during the search process. (Source: Noel-Levitz 2012 trend study) Contact Information Address: City: State: --- Select One --- Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Armed Forces - Africa Armed Forces - Americas Armed Forces - Canada Armed Forces - Europe Armed Forces - Middle East Armed Forces - Pacific Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. You're Almost Done Primary Phone: Don't worry, we value your privacy. Your phone number is not shared with other schools. Mobile Other By submitting this form, I agree that an Admissions Representative from Penn Foster High School may contact me via telephone and/or email regarding the educational program I selected. Many students find talking with a college representative to be one of the most helpful steps in the college decision process. For comprehensive consumer information click here You'll earn your High School Diploma from Regionally and Nationally Accredited Penn Foster Career School. Penn Foster High School is accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC), which is listed by the U.S. Department of Education as a nationally recognized accrediting agency. Penn Foster High School is regionally accredited by the Commission on Secondary Schools of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. The Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council is also a recognized member of the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). Penn Foster High School is licensed by the Pennsylvania State Board of Private Licensed Schools. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use © copyright 2003-2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
