#ThisURL#
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/get-help/legal-issues
#SubURL#
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/get-help/legal-issues#main-content
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/get-help/legal-issues
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/accelerating-new-therapies/meet-dr-jacqueline-french
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/make-difference/advocacy/position-statements
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/make-difference/public-awareness
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/learn/types-epilepsy-syndromes/rasmussens-syndrome
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/get-help/managing-your-epilepsy/managing-seizure-triggers
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/get-help/toolbox
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/make-difference/get-involved/kids-crew
http://www.epilepsyfoundation.org/make-difference/get-involved/lemonade-livy
https://twitter.com/epilepsyfdn
http://cqrcengage.com/efa/home
https://soundcloud.com/epilepsyfdn/whats-new-april-13-2016
https://www.facebook.com/EpilepsyFoundationofAmerica/photos/a.10150113887604754.294686.54326959753/10154064956229754/?type=3
http://bit.ly/1wdwepV
https://epilepsyfoundation.four51ordercloud.com/epilepsyfoundation/catalog
http://bit.ly/1qRoSvQ
http://www.walkforepilepsy.com
http://bit.ly/1FLSWJN
https://epilepsyfoundation.secure.force.com/EpilepsyPublicDonationPage?form=a04i000000AVI44
http://walkforepilepsy.org/
https://www.facebook.com/texasepilepsy/photos/a.10150322025449161.362417.39746839160/10154064171834161/?type=3
http://bit.ly/1MvfhVb
http://bit.ly/1wQ8VTl
http://www.youtube.com/user/EpilepsyFoundation
http://www.epilepsy.com/donate
http://eepurl.com/bXh2Af
https://www.facebook.com/EpilepsyFoundationofAmerica
http://bit.ly/1ry1zEf
#Title#
Epilepsy Foundation
#Content#
Skip to main content Epilepsy Foundation <none> Profile Sign Out Sign In Sign in with your social profile: Or fill in your credentials: Login using social networks Username * Password * Keep me logged in Register! Forgot Password? Find us in your areaFind us Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington Washington DC West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming or Donate Search form Search Search form Search Learn Get Help Make A Difference Connect The Epilepsy Foundation is your unwavering ally... Find Your Local Epilepsy Foundation Managing Your Epilepsy #DareTo Go the Distance Managing My Seizures 101 My Seizures Know More Understanding Seizures and Emergencies Tracking My Seizures Using Rescue Treatments Seizure Response Plans Seizure Drills Managing Triggers Adapting Plans for Travel Living With Epilepsy Summer Camp Independent Living Financial Planning Self Management Programs Seizure First Aid Care And Comfort First Aid Tailoring First Aid Responding to Seizures Getting Emergency Help Staying Safe Recognizing Risks Types of Injuries Driving and Transportation Safety at Home Safety While Sleeping Safety in the Kitchen Safety at Work Safety with Exercise and Sports Safety at Camp Seizure Dogs Infographic New Therapies and Research EF My Seizure Diary Diary Help Companion Apps Download Epilepsy & Seizures 24/7 Helpline Find A Doctor Find a Doctor Find an Epilepsy Center Toolbox Seizure Information Forms Medication and Communication Tools Glossary of Terms WebEase Legal Issues Our History Epilepsy Legal Resources General Resources Attorney Referrals Make a Donation Attorney Resources Join Our Network Services and Support Epilepsy Foundation Individual and Family Services Education Programs Patient Assistance Camps National & Community Resources Health Coverage Transportation For Veterans Rare Epilepsy Network (REN) SUDEP Institute SUDEP Advocacy Efforts SUDEP Surveillance Efforts SUDEP Challenge Initiative SUDEP Institute Updates Getting Involved with the SUDEP Institute Wellness Institute Healthy Eating Studio E: The Epilepsy Art Therapy Program Important Information about epilepsy and seizures… About Epilepsy: The Basics What Is Epilepsy? What is a Seizure? What Happens During A Seizure? Who Gets Epilepsy? What Causes a Seizure? What Are The Risk Factors For Epilepsy? Is Epilepsy Inherited? Will I Always Have Epilepsy? How Serious Are Seizures? Facts about Seizures and Epilepsy Types of Seizures Absence Seizures Atypical Absence Seizures Atonic Seizures Clonic Seizures Myoclonic Seizures Tonic Seizures Tonic-Clonic Seizures Simple Partial Seizures Complex Partial Seizures Secondarily Generalized Seizures Febrile Seizures Nonepileptic Seizures Refractory Seizures New Terms and Concepts for Seizures and Epilepsy Gelastic and Dacrystic Seizures Types of Epilepsy Syndromes Angelman Syndrome Benign Rolandic Epilepsy CDKL5 Disorder Childhood and Juvenile Absence Epilepsy Dravet Syndrome Frontal Lobe Epilepsy Glut1 Deficiency Syndrome Hypothalamic Hamartoma Infantile Spasms/West's Syndrome Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Landau-Kleffner Syndrome Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome (LGS) Epilepsy with Myoclonic-Absences Ohtahara Syndrome Panayiotopoulos Syndrome PCDH19 Epilepsy Progressive Myoclonic Epilepsies Rasmussen's Syndrome Ring Chromosome 20 Syndrome Reflex Epilepsies Temporal Lobe Epilepsy Lafora Progressive Myoclonus Epilepsy Neurocutaneous Syndromes Triggers of Seizures Missed Medicines Lack of Sleep and Epilepsy Stress and Epilepsy Alcohol Drug Abuse Menstruation Photosensitivity and Epilepsy Other Triggers of Seizures Nutritional Deficiencies Over-The-Counter Medications Epilepsy Statistics Impact Injuries and Illnesses Seizure Emergencies Mortality Thinking and Memory Moods and Behavior Reproductive Risks Sleep and Epilepsy Bone Health Diagnosis Diagnosis 101 You and Your Healthcare Team Medical History Physical Exam Neurological Exam EEG Looking at the Brain Genetic Testing Seizure Imitators Treating Seizures and Epilepsy Treatment 101: The Basics First Aid Seizure and Epilepsy Medicines Surgery Dietary Therapies Devices Other Treatment Approaches Clinical Trials Receiving Quality Care Refractory Epilepsy The Comprehensive Epilepsy Center Treating Refractory Epilepsy Diverse Communities African Americans Asian Americans En Espanol Seizure and Epilepsy News Epilepsy and Behavior Articles Keto News Seizures in Youth About Newborns and Infants About Kids About Teens with Epilepsy Parents Talking to Kids about Epilepsy Helping Others Understand Can Children Die from Epilepsy? Childcare Professionals and Babysitters' Guide Epilepsy & Behavior Journal Select Journal Abstracts Epilepsy Foundation Editorials Age and Gender Issues For Youth Seniors and Epilepsy Women and Epilepsy Men and Epilepsy Multimedia Center Webinar Archive How you can help people living with epilepsy and seizures… Advocacy Speak Up, Speak Out Advocacy Priorities Teens Speak Up!/Public Policy Institute Position Statements Highlights from the Hill In the States Advocate's Year of Service Medication Switching Ways to Give Make A Gift Corporate Partnerships Donate Clothing and Household Goods Other Ways to Give Kevin's Pyramids Get Involved Community Action Network Athletes vs Epilepsy National Walk for Epilepsy Host/Fundraise for Any Event Kids Crew Lemonade for Livy ‘Talk About It!’: Live from Hollywood, a 12-Hour Netathon! National Epilepsy Awareness Month International Epilepsy Day 2016 Epilepsy Pipeline Community Conference 2015 Epilepsy Pipeline Community Conference Purple Pumpkin Project Hidden Truths, The Mind Unraveled Downtown Downstairs at the Jazz Standard 2015 Twenty-20s Epilepsy Awareness Group Pawn Stars Poker Run Public Awareness Start a Conversation About Epilepsy and Seizures 1 in 26 Take Charge of the Facts Take Charge of the Storm Talk About It! Rick Harrison of 'Pawn Stars' Partners with Epilepsy Foundation to Raise Awareness About Seizures Last Pyramid Online Store Join our community to find help, hope and support… Chat Community Forums Hallway Conversations Epilepsy & Seizures 24/7 Helpline Get Social! #DareTo Go the Distance #DareTo Be Seizure Smart 2015 Back To School #DareTo Launch 2014 Back to School Epilepsy and Family Terms of Use, Disclaimer for Warranties and Liabilities Contact Us The Power of Stories Meet Kevin Meet Tracy This is My Story by Barbra Buoy <none> Home Walk for Epilepsy with the Stars Join us on April 16th for the 10th Anniversary National Walk for Epilepsy Learn More Watch Pipeline & Community Day Videos Now Watch all of the presentations from the 2016 Epilepsy Foundation Pipeline Conference and Community Day in the online archives See More Enter the Predictive Biomarkers Challenge Be the one who finds a way to predict who is at high risk for SUDEP Learn More Get to Know People Who Dare Join us in raising awareness, educating the public, funding research, and making connections. Read More Community Services and Support Our Network of Local Organizations Are Ready to Serve You See More New to Epilepsy and Seizures? spacer spacer Start Here Start Here: An Introduction to Epilepsy About Epilepsy: The Basics Treatment 101: The Basics Diagnosis 101 Seizure First Aid Managing My Seizures 101 About the Foundation spacer spacer spacer spacer spacer Dare to Defy Seizures Epilepsy Foundation: Your Unwavering Ally Welcome to Epilepsy.com! Our Mission A Family-Led Organization Letter from the President and CEO Our Logo About #DareTo Contact Us Our Leadership A Donor Bill of Rights Strategic Plan Our Guiding Principles International Partnership Careers For the Media Financial Information 2015 Annual Report Our Editors Our Research and Impact spacer spacer spacer Accelerating New Therapies Our Research Program Our Committment Accelerating New Therapies New Therapies Pipeline Clinical Trials and Studies Shark Tank Competition 2016 Epilepsy Pipeline Conference Antiepileptic Drug Trials XIII Conference / May 2015 2014 Epilepsy Pipeline Conference Meet Dr. Jacqueline French Information For... spacer spacer Information For... Professionals Women Youth Parents Seniors Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome Infantile Spasms and Tuberous Sclerosis Complex Positive Results from Phase 3 Cannabidiol Trial Announcement from GW Pharmaceuticals Latest News: Keto News, Teens Speak Up!, Talk About It, Ice Cream Social, Community Day Highlights Medicines for Epilepsy Medication is the primary way to treat seizures. What Is Epilepsy? When a person has two or more unprovoked seizures, they have epilepsy. Find Us Near You Find Your Local Epilepsy Foundation Epilepsy Spotlight Listen to What's New this Week Go to the Articles Sign Up for the Newsletter Epilepsy.com for Professionals See Our Channel for Pros Information For... spacer spacer Information For... Professionals Women Youth Parents Seniors Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome Infantile Spasms and Tuberous Sclerosis Complex Facebook <  > Epilepsy Foundation of America Watch this video to learn about Sally and her family's journey through a clinical trial: http://bit.ly/1MvfhVb. The video was shown at the Epilepsy Foundation Pipeline Conference (http://www.epilepsy.com/pipeline2016). Learn more about clinical trials: http://bit.ly/1tlXlAD Epilepsy Foundation of America T-37 hours until the National Walk for Epilepsy. We're packing things up and getting ready to see many of you Saturday in DC on the Washington Monument Grounds! Whether you're with us in DC or walking at home, share your photos with the hashtag #EpilepsyWalk. Epilepsy Foundation of America Discover what's new this week on epilepsy.com with Editor-in-Chief Dr. Joe Sirven. Topics include lemonade stands, re-trying a dietary therapy, an Embrace Update, and taking a look in the Charlie Foundation's pantry! Audio preview: http://bit.ly/1SO0W2I Newsletter: http://eepurl.com/bXJlVr What's New April 13, 2016 by Epilepsy Foundation | Free Listening on SoundCloud Epilepsy Foundation of America We're looking forward to seeing everyone this Saturday at the #EpilepsyWalk. Do you need to know how to get there? What about where to pick up your t-shirt? Or when everything starts? Get these answers and more here: http://eepurl.com/bXh2Af #WalkWednesday Find answers to frequently asked questions about the National Walk for Epilepsy, Saturday, April 16, in Washington, D.C. Important Information for the National Walk for Epilepsy Epilepsy Foundation of America Did you know... the majority of people with seizures can be managed by neurologists, but the 30% or so that have difficult to control seizures and do not respond to standard treatment require the next level of care at an epilepsy center. Learn what a Comprehensive Epilepsy Center is and how it can help: http://bit.ly/1qRoSvQ Learn about what is done at an epilepsy center, why people should consider going to one, and how people can get to the right type of care earlier. The Comprehensive Epilepsy Center Epilepsy Foundation of America Camp Brainstorm is run by the Epilepsy Foundation Central & South Texas. Find a full list of summer camps for kids with epilepsy at http://bit.ly/SidOpS Epilepsy Foundation of America Providing information can help your medical team form your diagnosis and make decisions about therapy. For information on making the most of your visits and collecting all the information that you need when talking to your doctor, check out: http://bit.ly/1FLSWJN How does the information you give to members of your health team, especially your doctor, affect your care? The information you provide the health care team helps: Form the diagnosis Make decisions about your therapy (by providing information on how you feel about certain issues such as making lifes… Visiting The Doctor Epilepsy Foundation of America Do you or someone you know have their epilepsy under control? Maybe it’s time to start driving! If you’re ready to get a driver’s license check your state's laws regarding driving with a epilepsy. http://bit.ly/1wQ8VTl State Driving Laws Database Epilepsy Foundation of America Temporal Lobe Epilepsy accounts for approximately 60% of all patients living with epilepsy, which makes it the most common form of epilepsy. Learn more http://bit.ly/1wdwepV and share with your friends so they can be well informed. What is temporal lobe epilepsy? Temporal Lobe Epilepsy Epilepsy Foundation of America Epilepsy Foundation of America: Learn about steps that are being taken to determine if having long-lasting febrile seizures in childhood could lead to temporal lobe epilepsy later in life. http://bit.ly/1ry1zEf What are febrile seizures? Febrile Seizures: A New Epilepsy Biomarker <none> <none> Learn About Epilepsy: The Basics What Is Epilepsy? What is a Seizure? What Happens During A Seizure? Who Gets Epilepsy? What Causes a Seizure? What Are The Risk Factors For Epilepsy? Is Epilepsy Inherited? Will I Always Have Epilepsy? How Serious Are Seizures? Facts about Seizures and Epilepsy Types of Seizures Absence Seizures Atypical Absence Seizures Atonic Seizures Clonic Seizures Myoclonic Seizures Tonic Seizures Tonic-Clonic Seizures Simple Partial Seizures Complex Partial Seizures Secondarily Generalized Seizures Febrile Seizures Nonepileptic Seizures Refractory Seizures New Terms and Concepts for Seizures and Epilepsy Gelastic and Dacrystic Seizures Types of Epilepsy Syndromes Angelman Syndrome Benign Rolandic Epilepsy CDKL5 Disorder Childhood and Juvenile Absence Epilepsy Dravet Syndrome Frontal Lobe Epilepsy Glut1 Deficiency Syndrome Hypothalamic Hamartoma Infantile Spasms/West's Syndrome Juvenile Myoclonic Epilepsy Landau-Kleffner Syndrome Lennox-Gastaut Syndrome (LGS) Epilepsy with Myoclonic-Absences Ohtahara Syndrome Panayiotopoulos Syndrome PCDH19 Epilepsy Progressive Myoclonic Epilepsies Rasmussen's Syndrome Ring Chromosome 20 Syndrome Reflex Epilepsies Temporal Lobe Epilepsy Lafora Progressive Myoclonus Epilepsy Neurocutaneous Syndromes Triggers of Seizures Missed Medicines Lack of Sleep and Epilepsy Stress and Epilepsy Alcohol Drug Abuse Menstruation Photosensitivity and Epilepsy Other Triggers of Seizures Nutritional Deficiencies Over-The-Counter Medications Epilepsy Statistics Impact Injuries and Illnesses Seizure Emergencies Mortality Thinking and Memory Moods and Behavior Reproductive Risks Sleep and Epilepsy Bone Health Diagnosis Diagnosis 101 You and Your Healthcare Team Medical History Physical Exam Neurological Exam EEG Looking at the Brain Genetic Testing Seizure Imitators Treating Seizures and Epilepsy Treatment 101: The Basics First Aid Seizure and Epilepsy Medicines Surgery Dietary Therapies Devices Other Treatment Approaches Clinical Trials Receiving Quality Care Refractory Epilepsy The Comprehensive Epilepsy Center Treating Refractory Epilepsy Diverse Communities African Americans Asian Americans En Espanol Seizure and Epilepsy News Epilepsy and Behavior Articles Keto News Seizures in Youth About Newborns and Infants About Kids About Teens with Epilepsy Parents Talking to Kids about Epilepsy Helping Others Understand Can Children Die from Epilepsy? Childcare Professionals and Babysitters' Guide Epilepsy & Behavior Journal Select Journal Abstracts Epilepsy Foundation Editorials Age and Gender Issues For Youth Seniors and Epilepsy Women and Epilepsy Men and Epilepsy Multimedia Center Webinar Archive Get Help Find Your Local Epilepsy Foundation Managing Your Epilepsy #DareTo Go the Distance Managing My Seizures 101 My Seizures Know More Understanding Seizures and Emergencies Tracking My Seizures Using Rescue Treatments Seizure Response Plans Seizure Drills Managing Triggers Adapting Plans for Travel Living With Epilepsy Summer Camp Independent Living Financial Planning Self Management Programs Seizure First Aid Care And Comfort First Aid Tailoring First Aid Responding to Seizures Getting Emergency Help Staying Safe Recognizing Risks Types of Injuries Driving and Transportation Safety at Home Safety While Sleeping Safety in the Kitchen Safety at Work Safety with Exercise and Sports Safety at Camp Seizure Dogs Infographic New Therapies and Research EF My Seizure Diary Diary Help Companion Apps Download Epilepsy & Seizures 24/7 Helpline Find A Doctor Find a Doctor Find an Epilepsy Center Toolbox Seizure Information Forms Medication and Communication Tools Glossary of Terms WebEase Legal Issues Our History Epilepsy Legal Resources General Resources Attorney Referrals Make a Donation Attorney Resources Join Our Network Services and Support Epilepsy Foundation Individual and Family Services Education Programs Patient Assistance Camps National & Community Resources Health Coverage Transportation For Veterans Rare Epilepsy Network (REN) SUDEP Institute SUDEP Advocacy Efforts SUDEP Surveillance Efforts SUDEP Challenge Initiative SUDEP Institute Updates Getting Involved with the SUDEP Institute Wellness Institute Healthy Eating Studio E: The Epilepsy Art Therapy Program Make A Difference Advocacy Speak Up, Speak Out Advocacy Priorities Teens Speak Up!/Public Policy Institute Position Statements Highlights from the Hill In the States Advocate's Year of Service Medication Switching Ways to Give Make A Gift Corporate Partnerships Donate Clothing and Household Goods Other Ways to Give Kevin's Pyramids Get Involved Community Action Network Athletes vs Epilepsy National Walk for Epilepsy Host/Fundraise for Any Event Kids Crew Lemonade for Livy ‘Talk About It!’: Live from Hollywood, a 12-Hour Netathon! National Epilepsy Awareness Month International Epilepsy Day 2016 Epilepsy Pipeline Community Conference 2015 Epilepsy Pipeline Community Conference Purple Pumpkin Project Hidden Truths, The Mind Unraveled Downtown Downstairs at the Jazz Standard 2015 Twenty-20s Epilepsy Awareness Group Pawn Stars Poker Run Public Awareness Start a Conversation About Epilepsy and Seizures 1 in 26 Take Charge of the Facts Take Charge of the Storm Talk About It! Rick Harrison of 'Pawn Stars' Partners with Epilepsy Foundation to Raise Awareness About Seizures Last Pyramid Online Store Connect Chat Community Forums Hallway Conversations Epilepsy & Seizures 24/7 Helpline Get Social! #DareTo Go the Distance #DareTo Be Seizure Smart 2015 Back To School #DareTo Launch 2014 Back to School Epilepsy and Family Terms of Use, Disclaimer for Warranties and Liabilities Contact Us The Power of Stories Meet Kevin Meet Tracy This is My Story by Barbra Buoy
