#ThisURL#
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com?ls=iref:nba:gnav
#SubURL#
http://stats.nba.com/team/#!/1610612745/lineups/?Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/tag/steve-aschburner/
http://itunes.apple.com/podcast/nba-coms-hang-time-podcast/id363783680
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/2016/04/06/blogtable-predicting-the-middle-of-the-eastern-conference-playoff-race/
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/2016/04/13/blogtable-your-all-rookie-first-team-picks/?share=facebook
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/tag/new-york-knicks/
http://www.golden1center.com/
http://stats.nba.com/league/team/#!/advanced/?OpponentTeamID=1610612761&sort=OFF_RATING&dir=1&Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/tag/pat-mccrory/
http://www.nba.com/games/20160413/ATLWAS/gameinfo.html
http://stats.nba.com/team/#!/1610612761/stats/?t=raptors&Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season&VsConference=East&Split=opp
https://twitter.com/Rickfox
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/tag/james-harden/
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/tag/vlade-divac/
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/tag/dwight-howard/
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/comment-policy/
http://hangtime.blogs.nba.com/2016/04/08/morning-shootaround-april-8-4/
http://stats.nba.com/league/team/#!/advanced/?sort=NET_RATING&dir=1&Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season
http://stats.nba.com/team/#!/1610612744/stats/?Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season
http://stats.nba.com/team/#!/1610612761/lineups/?Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season
http://stats.nba.com/team/#!/1610612745/lineups/advanced/?CF=GROUP_NAME*E*Howard,Dwight%7CMIN*GE*250&Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season&GroupQuantity=2&sort=NET_RATING&dir=1
http://stats.nba.com/league/lineups/#!/advanced/?Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season&GroupQuantity=2
http://stats.nba.com/team/#!/1610612754/stats/?Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season&OpponentTeamID=1610612761&PerMode=Totals&Split=ingame
http://stats.nba.com/team/#!/1610612744/lineups/?Season=2015-16&SeasonType=Regular%20Season
https://twitter.com/langwhitaker
http://www.nba.com/playoffs/2016/eastseries2/
http://espn.go.com/nba/story/_/id/15200611/wizards-fire-coach-randy-wittman-team-misses-playoffs
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wizards-insider/wp/2016/04/13/wizards-to-fire-randy-wittman-after-disappointing-season-concludes-without-a-playoff-berth/
http://www.nba.com/2016/news/04/10/sixxers-bryan-colangelo-president-basketball-operations/index.html
http://adage.com/article/news/nba-commissioner-ads-player-jerseys-inevitable/292229/
http://www.nba.com/news/termsofuse.html
http://www.nba.com/video/channels/playoffs/westseries1/2016/04/14/warriors-rockets-by-the-numbers-2.nba/index.html
http://espn.go.com/nba/story/_/id/15191055/nba-owners-expected-pass-rule-allowing-ads-jerseys-2017-18-season
http://allball.blogs.nba.com/
http://www.tsn.ca/mlse-sets-target-price-for-raptors-on-jersey-ads-1.465217
http://on.nba.com/1XsOIAu
http://NBA.com
http://www.nba.com/video/channels/nba_tv/2016/04/13/players-say-farewell-to-kobe-bryant-mix.nba/index.html
mailto:sekou.smith@turner.com
http://www.nba.com/.element/mp3/2.0/sect/podcastmp3/NBA/podcast/20160413_hangtime_podcast.mp3
http://sports.yahoo.com/news/sources--kings-plan-to-dismiss-george-karl-on-thursday-160949970.html
http://www.nba.com/playoffs/2016/westseries1/
http://vip.wordpress.com/
http://www.nba.com/sixers/video/2016/04/10/1460319274219-041016-Press-Conference.mp4-432848/
https://twitter.com/SekouSmithNBA
http://www.nba.com/playoffs/2015/
http://espn.go.com/nba/story/_/id/15201782/senators-urge-nba-pull-2017-all-star-game-charlotte-north-carolina
http://feeds.feedburner.com/hang-time-podcast
https://twitter.com/kenArms/
http://twitter.com/langwhitaker
http://wp.me/pPQKk-oP0
http://wp.me/pPQKk-oOV
http://wp.me/pPQKk-oP3
#Title#
NBA.com | Hang Time Blog
#Content#
Skip to main content   Jersey ads, N.C. gender law among topics at Board of Governors meeting April 14, 2016  ·  8:52 PM ET NEW YORK — Convening appropriately enough on some of the priciest real estate in the U.S., the NBA’s Board of Governors is expected to discuss and approve its own brand of pricey real estate at its annual spring meeting that ends Friday. If an average two-bedroom Manhattan condominium seems steep at $1.9 million or $1,500 per square foot, consider the advertising on NBA jerseys that the league’s owners are expected to approve for the 2017-18 season. At a projected 2.5-inch by 2.5-inch size on the left shoulder of uniform shirts – approximately 0.04 square feet – and revenue streams estimated at upwards of $4 million per team contract, the little embroidered corporate logos would be worth the equivalent of $100 million per square foot. Actually, NBA commissioner Adam Silver used that $100 million figure – as the anticipated payday for the 30 teams overall – back in 2011, long before he took over for David Stern as the league’s top executive. Silver has studied and spearheaded the revenue potential of the in-game branding. In 2014, after speaking at the IMG World Congress of Sports, Silver said: “It’s inevitable. It’s such as enormous opportunity for our sponsors to connect with us.” And the commissioner re-visited the selling of the lucrative ad space last month in an interview with ESPN’s Rachel Nichols, suggesting the logos would solidify the marketing relationships between the NBA and its corporate partners. “Let’s begin by saying this isn’t going to affect the competition,” Silver said then. “What we’re talking about is a patch on the jersey. … But once they put their name on the jerseys, they’ll then use their media to promote the NBA extensively.” The NBA would be the first of the four major U.S. sports leagues to sell ad space on its jerseys, though the WNBA has done so for years. Players wore a Kia logo on their All-Star jerseys in February in Toronto, part of a two-year deal between the auto maker and Turner Sports. A report by TSN Sports in February noted that Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, parent company of the Toronto Raptors, had begun talking with potential advertisers about the jersey ads for 2017-18, citing sources that a price tag of $4 million to $5 million per season was discussed. ESPN reported this week that a proposal to NBA owners over All-Star Weekend called for 50 percent of jersey-ad revenue to be kept by each team and, to adjust for large vs. small market disparities, 50 percent to be added to the league’s revenue-sharing pool. Also on the agenda for this week’s BOG meeting, which will conclude with Silver news conference Friday afternoon:. Discussion of (but not necessarily any sort of vote on) the new “HB2” law in North Carolina generating controversy over its language and intent involving gender-specific restroom and locker room access in government buildings and schools. A half-dozen U.S. senators reportedly drafted a letter to Silver urging the NBA to move the 2017 All-Star Game from Charlotte, something the Atlanta City Council also has sought. TNT broadcaster and NBA Hall of Famer Charles Barkley weighed in for a move, as did Detroit coach Stan Van Gundy. The NBA has maintained its initial position, hoping that a resolution to the matter could be reached within North Carolina. On Tuesday, Gov. Pat McCrory filed an executive order that extends further protections to state employees based on sexual orientation and gender identity, though other provisions of the law remain intact. Reports on the collective-bargaining agreement from the Labor Relations Committee in anticipation of the labor deal’s reopening by the National Basketball Players Association or the owners by a December deadline, as well as updates related to officiating and to international basketball development. An official vote, essentially a formality, to approve the Sacramento Kings’ move from Sleep Train Arena to Golden 1 Center. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: HT News / Tags: , 2017 All-Star Game, Adam Silver, Charles Barkley, jersey ads, Pat McCrory, Stan Van Gundy, Steve Aschburner / Comments Off on Jersey ads, N.C. gender law among topics at Board of Governors meeting / Numbers preview: Warriors-Rockets April 14, 2016  ·  6:56 PM ET VIDEO: Warriors-Rockets: By the Numbers HANG TIME NEW JERSEY — It was a record-setting season for the Golden State Warriors: 73 wins, 24 to start the season, 1,000 3-pointers, and a full, 82-game slate without ever losing two straight. These Warriors will stand as one of the best teams in NBA history no matter what happens in the next nine weeks. But if they don’t cap this historic season with another championship, all those records will come with a mental asterisk. At no point in the season did the Warriors lose more than twice in any seven-game stretch. So it’s difficult to imagine them losing four in seven in the playoffs. But stranger things have happened. The quest for a repeat begins with 4-7 games against the league’s most disappointing team. The Houston Rockets are lucky to be here after 15-game drop in the standings from last season. Warriors-Rockets series hub | Scott Howard-Cooper’s full preview Here are some statistical notes to get you ready for the 1-8 series in the West, with links to let you dive in and explore more. Pace = Possessions per 48 minutes OffRtg = Points scored per 100 possessions DefRtg = Points allowed per 100 possessions NetRtg = Point differential per 100 possessions Golden State Warriors (73-9) Pace: 101.6 (2) OffRtg: 112.5 (1) DefRtg: 100.9 (4) NetRtg: +11.6 (2) Regular season: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups vs. Houston: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups Warriors notes: Scored 8.6 more points per 100 possessions than the league average, the third best mark since the league started counting turnovers in 1977, trailing only the 2003-04 Mavs (9.5) and 2004-05 Suns (8.8). Effective field goal percentage of 56.3 percent is the highest in NBA history, eclipsing the mark (55.4 percent) of the 2013-14 Miami Heat. Assisted on 68.0 percent of their baskets, the highest rate in the league. Outscored opponents by 20.0 points per 100 possessions in the first quarter, the best mark by any team in any quarter since 1996-97, when the Utah Jazz outscored opponents by 21.9 in the third period. Stephen Curry hit 85 more pull-up 3-pointers than any other player in the league. Klay Thompson hit 61 more catch-and-shoot 3-pointers than any other player. The Warriors outscored their opponents by 1,070 points with Draymond Green on the floor and by 1,022 points with Curry on the floor. Those are the two best plus-minus marks since the league started tracking play-by-play in 1996-97. Thompson’s mark of plus-836 is the sixth best mark in that time. Houston Rockets (41-41) Pace: 100.1 (7) OffRtg: 105.5 (8) DefRtg: 105.6 (21) NetRtg: -0.2 (15) Regular season: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups vs. Golden State: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups Rockets notes: Took 37.0 percent of their shots from 3-point range, leading the league for the third straight season. Opponents shot 36.1 percent from 3-point range, up from 32.2 percent last season. That was the biggest increase in the league. Trevor Ariza and James Harden played 2,602 minutes together, more than any other combination in the league. Ariza led the league in corner 3-pointers for the third straight season. His 89 corner threes were 21 more than any other player and the most in the last 7 seasons. He took a lot more from the right corner (57-for-148, 38.5%), but actually shot them better from the left corner (32-for-63, 50.8%). Harden assisted Ariza on 40 of those 89 corner threes and led the league with 106 total assists on corner threes. Harden led the league with 549 isolation possessions, 166 more than any other player. Dwight Howard‘s usage rate of 18.7 percent was his lowest since his rookie season. Outscored opponents by 6.9 points per 100 possessions in 681 minutes with Howard on the floor with either Clint Capela or Donatas Motiejunas, but were outscored by 2.6 in 1,599 minutes when Howard was on the floor without either of them. The matchup Season series: Warriors won 3-0 (2-0 in Houston) Oct. 30 – Warriors 112, Rockets 92 Dec. 31 – Warriors 114, Rockets 110 Feb. 9 – Warriors 123, Rockets 110 Pace: 102.1 GSW OffRtg: 113.9 (3rd vs. HOU) HOU OffRtg: 102.0 (13th vs. GSW) Matchup notes: Curry and Harrison Barnes were out for the second meeting. No Warriors lineup played more than 13 minutes against the Rockets. The Rockets had a free throw rate (FTA/FGA) of 0.405, the highest of any team against the Warriors. The Warriors outscored the Rockets by 54 minutes in 93 minutes with Andre Iguodala on the floor and were outscored by 17 points in 51 minutes with Iguodala on the bench. His 44 total points were the most he scored against any opponent. Howard averaged 10.7 shots per game, his highest average against any Western Conference opponent. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: 2016 NBA Playoffs, NBA.com/Stats / Tags: , Draymond Green, Dwight Howard, Golden State Warriors, Houston Rockets, James Harden, John Schuhmann, Klay Thompson, Stephen Curry, Trevor Ariza / Comments Off on Numbers preview: Warriors-Rockets / Numbers preview: Raptors-Pacers April 14, 2016  ·  3:58 PM ET VIDEO: Raptors vs. Pacers: By the Numbers HANG TIME NEW JERSEY — Is this the year the Toronto Raptors get it done? In their 21-year history, the Raptors have never won a best-of-7 playoff series. Their only series victory came in 2001, when the first round was a best-of-5. Each of the last two seasons, they had home-court advantage in the first round, lost it in Game 1, and got knocked out by a lower seed. So, after a third straight year of setting a franchise record for regular-season wins, there’s added pressure on Dwane Casey and his team to finally take the next step. The Indiana Pacers are back in the playoffs after a one-year absence. They said goodbye to the frontline that helped them get to the conference finals twice and tried to change their identity, but eventually settled back into being a team that played two traditional bigs, did its best work on defense, and struggled to score. This is the only first-round matchup between a team that ranks in the top five in offensive efficiency and one that ranks in the top five in defensive efficiency. And it may be determined by the Pacers’ ability to score against what has been an improved Toronto defense. Raptors-Pacers series hub | Ian Thomsen’s full preview Here are some statistical notes to get you ready for the 2-7 series in the East, with links to let you dive in and explore more. Pace = Possessions per 48 minutes OffRtg = Points scored per 100 possessions DefRtg = Points allowed per 100 possessions NetRtg = Point differential per 100 possessions Toronto Raptors (56-26) Pace: 95.3 (29) OffRtg: 107.0 (5) DefRtg: 102.7 (11) NetRtg: +4.3 (6) Regular season: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups vs. Indiana: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups Raptors notes: Went 18-7 against the other Eastern Conference playoff teams, the best record in games played within the group. They had a winning record against each of the other seven. Assisted on only 51.1 percent of their baskets, the lowest rate in the league. Outscored by 8.3 points per 100 possessions in the first six minutes of the first quarter, the fifth worst mark in the league and the worst among playoff teams. But they made up for it by outscoring their opponents by 14.5 points per 100 possessions in the last six minutes of the first quarter. Players off the bench had an aggregate NetRtg of plus-7.0, a mark which trailed only that of San Antonio. Outscored their opponents by 15.2 points per 100 possessions in 514 minutes with Cory Joseph, Terrence Ross, Patrick Patterson and Bismack Biyombo on the floor with either DeMar DeRozan or Kyle Lowry. DeRozan led the league with 8.7 points per game on drives, up from 4.9 last season. He was also one of five players who attempted more than 500 shots from mid-range. Luis Scola took 26.9 percent of his shots from 3-point range, up from 3.1 percent last season. That was the biggest increase among players who took at least 500 shots both seasons. Scola also had the biggest decrease in free throw rate (FTA/FGA) in that same group. Indiana Pacers (45-37) Pace: 99.0 (10) OffRtg: 102.4 (23) DefRtg: 100.2 (3) NetRtg: +2.2 (11) Regular season: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups vs. Toronto: Team stats | Player stats | Lineups Pacers notes: Had the league’s two best defensive lineups among the 26 that played at least 300 minutes together. They allowed just 95.1 points per 100 possessions in 785 total minutes with George Hill, Monta Ellis, Paul George and Ian Mahinmi on the floor with either Lavoy Allen or Myles Turner at power forward. That same group with C.J. Miles at power forward allowed 107.2 points per 100 possessions in 333 minutes. Had the biggest increase in opponent turnover rate, from 13.2 per 100 possessions (25th in the league) last season to 15.8 (seventh) this season. They led the league with 18.9 points off turnovers per game. Played 52 games that were within five points in the last five minutes, tied (with Denver) for the most in the league. Shot 73 percent (19-for-26) from 3-point range in a Nov. 24 win at Washington, the best 3-point percentage for any team in a game in which they attempted at least 10 threes. 10-8 vs. the other East playoff teams before the All-Star break and 2-7 after it. One of the two post-break wins was vs. the LeBron James-less Cavs on April 6. The matchup Season series: Raptors won 3-1 (2-0 in Toronto) Oct. 28 – Raptors 106, Pacers 99 Dec. 14 – Pacers 106, Raptors 90 Mar. 17 – Raptors 101, Pacers 94 (OT) Apr. 8 – Raptors 111, Pacers 98 Pace: 98.5 TOR OffRtg: 100.2 (14th vs. IND) IND OffRtg: 98.9 (19th vs. TOR) Matchup notes: Seven different starting lineups (four for Toronto, three for Indiana) were used in the four meetings. The Raptors rested Kyle Lowry, DeMar DeRozan and Luis Scola in the April 8 meeting in Toronto, and still won by 13. In fact, it was the only game of the four that they scored more than a point per possession. Over the four games, the Pacers won the first (+2), second (+16) and fourth (+10) quarters. But the Raptors won all four third quarters by a total of 32 points. The Raptors had a free throw rate (FTA/FGA) of 0.448, the highest mark of any Indiana opponent this season. The Raptors were a plus-30 in 153 minutes with either Bismack Biyombo (plus-18 in 99 minutes) or Jonas Valanciunas (plus-12 in 54 minutes) on the floor, and a minus-19 with neither on the floor. Paul George shot 31 percent (20-for-65), his lowest mark against any Eastern Conference opponent. C.J. Miles (14-for-28) and George Hill (9-for-15) combined to shoot 53 percent from 3-point range. All other Pacers shot 21 percent. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: 2016 NBA Playoffs, NBA.com/Stats / Tags: , DeMar DeRozan, Indiana Pacers, John Schuhmann, Kyle Lowry, Luis Scola, Paul George, Toronto Raptors / Comments Off on Numbers preview: Raptors-Pacers / Reports: Wizards fire Wittman April 14, 2016  ·  8:14 AM ET NBA.com staff reports The Washington Wizards missed the playoffs this season, a letdown after last season’s 46-36 campaign that saw the Wizards reach the Eastern Conference semifinals. That work Washington put in — and its results since part of the way through 2011-12 — was done under the watch of coach Randy Wittman. But after last night’s win over the Atlanta Hawks, Wittman was let go as coach. The Associated Press, ESPN.com’s Marc Stein and the Washington Post’s Jorge Castillo all reported the news shortly after last night’s game, which is when Wittman found out he was fired. Here’s the AP on the move: With a seemingly half-hearted showing against a bunch of backups, the Hawks lost 109-98 to the Washington Wizards on Wednesday night and wound up seeded No. 4. After the game, Wizards coach Randy Wittman was told he would not return next season, according to a person familiar with the decision. The person spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the move has not been announced by the team. … After the game, Wittman offered a defense of the job he’s done. “I love this job. I’m going to come to work until they tell me I can’t. I’m proud of what we’ve done here. I took over 4 1/2 years ago, and this was a sideshow,” Wittman said. “And we slowly changed the culture of this team. And we had a slip-up this year.” About an hour later, Wittman was overheard saying his goodbyes to a team employee. Here’s Stein’s report on ESPN.com about why the Wizards parted ways with Wittman and who might be next to take the job: NBA coaching sources tell ESPN.com’s Marc Stein that former Oklahoma City Thunder coach Scotty Brooks is widely regarded as the Wizards’ preferred choice to replace Wittman, at least partly to assist with Washington’s long-held plan to chase D.C. native Kevin Durant in free agency. … Next season was to be the final year of Wittman’s three-year contract, which paid him more than $3 million per season but was not fully guaranteed. Wittman took the team to the playoffs in each of the last two seasons since taking over for the late Flip Saunders in January 2012, but the team’s 41-41 finish this season was far below what prognisticators expected for the team this season. Last season, the Wizards went 46-36 and were seeded fifth in the East for the playoffs. They knocked off the Toronto Raptors in the first round, then bowed out in six games against Atlanta after Wall broke bones in his left hand and wrist in Game 1. After having success using Paul Pierce as a stretch-4 during those playoffs, the Wizards tried to install a full-fledged pace-and-space system this season, although they did it without Pierce, who left for the Los Angeles Clippers as a free agent. The strategy never fully worked. Washington’s defensive play, the foundation of the success Wittman did have with the team, took a major step back this season, and injuries up and down the roster didn’t help matters. And here’s Castillo’s report on the outlook in D.C. as well: The team is expected to call a Thursday afternoon press conference to formally announce the move. Grunfeld, who retooled the roster last offseason with this summer’s salary cap space in mind, is under contract for at least next season. He is expected to return for his 14th campaign in his position. If he does, he’ll oversee his fifth coach during his tenure and, barring an extension, will likely not have his contract aligned with the new coach. Potential candidates to replace Wittman include Scott Brooks and Jeff Hornacek. … Over the next three seasons, Wittman successfully shepherded the team by getting players to consistently commit on the defensive end. Improvement followed. The Wizards jumped from 20-46 to 29-63 to 44-38 to 46-36, snapping a five-year postseason drought along the way. The organization envisioned taking the next step this season, with stated goals of a top-four seed and its first 50-win season since 1979. The franchise’s first Eastern Conference finals berth in 37 years was also among the aspirations, a goal that seemed in sight last season until star John Wall fractured his hand during the Eastern Conference semifinals, which the Wizards lost in six games to the Hawks. Wittman, a defensive-minded coach, installed an uptempo playing style that focused on spacing the floor, shooting more three pointers, and scoring in transition after the team’s success with a similar look during the playoffs last season– all while the front office prioritized salary cap space for this offseason. The defensive identity cultivated in previous seasons vanished until the all-star break before the Wizards turned it around and ranked fifth in the NBA in defensive efficiency  in 31 games after the respite. Overall, Washington’s defense allowed 3.8 more points per 100 possessions than last season and went from second in opponents’ field-goal percentage to 24th entering Wednesday’s finale. Meanwhile, the Wizards’ offensive efficiency climbed just 1.2 points. “It’s a decision that I made,” Wittman said of the philosophical shift. “That was my choice.” Players said defense was not prioritized in training camp like in the past with the move to the pace-and-space offense, but the reasons for the woes extended far beyond that. The conditioning necessary for the system was a problem across the roster, including for Wall, who reported to camp heavier than usual and had a dismal November. Early injuries complicated cohesiveness. But, most prominently, effort, discipline, and accountability – the three tenets of Wittman’s tenure that masked the team’s previous offensive shortcomings — were inconsistent. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: HT News / Tags: , John Wall, Randy Wittman, Washington Wizards / Comments Off on Reports: Wizards fire Wittman / Jerry Colangelo on Hinkie, process: ‘At some point you’ve got to win’ April 13, 2016  ·  9:06 PM ET CHICAGO – Regardless of what one thinks of the job Sam Hinkie did in Philadelphia – dredging, dredging and dredging some more with his notorious “Process” that never advanced beyond a foundation pour – the 76ers’ former president and GM was working within the rules of the system. To avoid getting stuck in the middle of the standings, Philadelphia under Hinkie opted to lose big – “tank” is the indelicate term for it these days – in order to improve his franchise’s draft-lottery odds and eventually get the bounce of accumulated young talent. So when Jerry Colangelo, the longtime NBA owner and impresario turned consultant to the 76ers, met with reporters before the season finale at United Center Wednesday, the question was put to him: If a system encourages teams to win by losing, isn’t that a message to the league that the system needs an overhaul? Colangelo deftly finessed his answer. “I think historically in sports, not just basketball, teams have positioned themselves to draft people. To win certain games – call it strategy,” said Colangelo, who knew of such things dating back to 1969, when his Phoenix Suns were hopeful of drafting Kareem Abdul-Jabbar – until losing a coin flip with Milwaukee. “When a system is promoted somewhat like we had in Philadelphia, that existed [to a degree] that I don’t think will continue to exist going forward, it’s more about ‘Let’s do it in a systematic way, to use the assets, build a team.’ And there is a fundamental way to do that.” Boil it down and it’s pretty clear: Tanks but no tanks. Those days are over in Philadephia. In his first extended public comments since Hinkie’s resignation last week, Colangelo – brought in by ownership to oversee a rebuilding that struggled to find traction – disputed reports that he ran off Hinkie while embracing a reconfiguration of the front office that now is headed by his son, Bryan Colangelo. “What happened here is, Sam had a plan,” the elder Colangelo said. “He accumulated a lot of assets. Many of those assets are in place. There’s also been draft picks over the last three years and judgment as to what that looks like, and what kind of return you get on those individuals. “But the combination of what’s there in place, Sam should always be credited for accumulating those assets. There’s no doubt about that. But there’s a lot of work to put those assets to work. “And then when you make selections, you’ve got to be right on the selections. And it’s pretty hard to have an open-ended situation because at some point you’ve got to win. So the attitude is, we want to win.” In particular, Colangelo took exception to speculation that he had leaked Hinkie’s philosophical, 13-page resignation letter, a development that reportedly embarrassed Hinkie when his private thoughts about the team, the vaunted “process” and his decision to step down were made public. Colangelo said he received Hinkie’s letter on his phone at the same time as the team’s multiple owners and said “a national writer” claimed to have a copy within five minutes. “Email. All the owners got it and I did,” Colangelo said, adding that he was home in Phoenix preparing for a speaking engagement. “So I started reading it to my wife. When I saw ‘resignation,’ that came out of the blue. Totally out of the blue. “It took me a long time to read it. I didn’t quite understand all of it. Ya know I went to [the University of] Illinois… I put the phone down, went up and changed and went on my merry way.” Of Hinkie’s decision to resign, Colangelo said: “His intelligence is off the charts. And the analytical part of it is off the charts. He’s a good man. He’s a good guy. But he felt that he was hired to do a job and he had a couple of roles as president and GM. And if that was going to change, then he just didn’t feel comfortable sticking with that. I respect that.” Colangelo has maintained that he stepped back from Philadelphia’s hiring process even before his son’s name surfaced first to work alongside Hinkie, now to replace him. Bryan Colangelo has a cupboard far less bare than the one Hinkie inherited. Or any that Jerry Colangelo took over, as it turns out. “It’s a great opportunity when you have assets,” the father said. “Look, everything I’ve ever done has been start-up. And when you usually start up a professional sports team, they don’t give you a lot of assets. You usually draft last in the Draft. The guys you get in expansion aren’t guys you would write home about. It takes a while to build a product. It takes a lot of time.” Time was up on Hinkie’s approach, that’s all. “Here’s where I am on all of this; I’m just kind of covering it because that’s what you wanted to hear,” Colangelo said. “But I’m done with it. I don’t want to talk about it anymore. I think all that’s important is that we now have someone in place who I think is going to do a great job for the Philadelphia 76ers. He threw himself in immediately. And it’s exciting in terms of what lies ahead for all the right reasons. The draft picks, the free agency, the things that already have been put into motion.” Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: HT News / Tags: , Bryan Colangelo, Jerry Colangelo, Philadelphia 76ers, Sam Hinkie, Steve Aschburner / Comments Off on Jerry Colangelo on Hinkie, process: ‘At some point you’ve got to win’ / Hang Time Podcast (Episode 234) Kobe’s Last Stand April 13, 2016  ·  8:56 PM ET HANG TIME HEADQUARTERS — History will look favorably on the 20-year career of one Kobe Bean Bryant. All of the highlights, the five championships, the MVP award, the All-Star Game MVPs and all of the other highlights will drown out the the injuries and struggles that marred the end of Kobe’s career. Years from now, the fact that the Lakers endured the worst season in franchise history during Kobe’s farewell season will be a forgotten footnote in the grand scheme of things. In fact, the trials and tribulations the Lakers endured this season won’t be on anyone’s mind at Staples Center tonight, Kobe’s last in uniform. It’s all about celebrating one of the game’s all-time greats. Kobe has to share the spotlight, though, with that outfit 400 miles up the California coast. The same night the world says goodbye to Kobe just happens to be the night the Golden State Warriors chase a milestone Kobe and his greatest Lakers teams could not touch. A win over Memphis at Oracle Arena will give the Warriors win No. 73, the best single-season win total in NBA history, besting the Michael Jordan-led 1995-96 Chicago Bulls’ 72-win mark. If Stephen Curry, Klay Thompson, Draymond Green and Co. handle that business, they are well on their way to completing one of the most remarkable runs in recent memory, back-to-back titles and 140 regular season wins during that grind. We do our best to put this historic final night of the regular season in the proper perspective on Episode 234 of The Hang Time Podcast, where we also crown our regular season “Braggin’ Rights” champion.  Check out all that and more on Episode 234 of The Hang Time Podcast … Kobe’s Last Stand. LISTEN HERE: http://www.nba.com/.element/mp3/2.0/sect/podcastmp3/NBA/podcast/20160413_hangtime_podcast.mp3 As always, we welcome your feedback. You can follow the entire crew, including the Hang Time Podcast, co-hosts Sekou Smith of NBA.com, Lang Whitaker of NBA.com’s All-Ball Blog and renaissance man Rick Fox of NBA TV, as well as our new super producer Gregg (just like Popovich) Waigand. – To download the podcast, click here. To subscribe via iTunes, click here, or get the xml feed if you want to subscribe some other, less iTunes-y way. *** VIDEO: NBA greats from around the league bid Kobe Bryant farewell Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: Podcast / Tags: , 1995-96 Chicago Bulls, Bulls, Gregg Popovich, Hang Time Podcast, Klay Thompson, Kobe Bryant, Lakers, Lang Whitaker, Michael Jordan, Rick Fox, Sekou Smith, Stephen Curry, Warriors / Comments Off on Hang Time Podcast (Episode 234) Kobe’s Last Stand / Report: Kings to dismiss George Karl April 13, 2016  ·  12:49 PM ET HANG TIME BIG CITY — The season may not be over just yet, but the Sacramento Kings are reportedly already planning for the future. According to a report from The Vertical’s Adrian Wojnorowski, tomorrow the Kings will be part ways with coach George Karl… The Kings will allow Karl to travel back with the team late Wednesday night and will make official what’s been suspected for months: Once again, the Kings are in the market for a new coach. Karl is aware of the timing of the Thursday dismissal, sources said. Unlike the firing of coach Michael Malone in December 2015 – a unilateral, solo choice by owner Vivek Ranadive – the dismissal of Karl is a broader decision of ownership and top basketball executive Vlade Divac. Karl is owed $5 million-plus on the balance of his contract. Two members of Karl’s coaching staff, Corliss Williamson and Nancy Lieberman, could stay to be a part of the next head coach’s staff, league sources said. Karl went 11-19 last season after taking the Kings’ coaching position midseason, and despite high hopes coming into this season, the Kings have gone 33-48. Next season the Kings will move into a new arena, the Golden 1 Center. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: HT News / Tags: , Corliss Williamson, George Karl, Lang Whitaker, Michael Malone, Nancy Lieberman, Sacramento Kings, Vivek Ranadive, Vlade Divac / Comments Off on Report: Kings to dismiss George Karl / Blogtable: Outlook on 76ers’ future? April 13, 2016  ·  11:35 AM ET Each week, we’ll ask our stable of scribes across the globe to weigh in on the most important NBA topics of the day — and then give you a chance to step on the scale, too, in the comments below. BLOGTABLE: State of Cavs as playoffs near? | Outlook on 76ers’ future? | Your All-Rookie team picks are? VIDEO: Bryan Colangelo’s news conference > The Philadelphia 76ers have turned to Bryan Colangelo to lead the franchise. Good move? And what does a successful 2016-17 season look like to Sixers fans? David Aldridge, TNT analyst: Yes. There’s nothing Bryan Colangelo can do to deal with the nepotism charges that will surely come, but he’s established himself over the years as one of the better GMs in the league, and he’ll do a good job with the resources Sam Hinkie is leaving him: Joel Embiid, Nerlens Noel, Jahlil Okafor, Dario Saric, Robert Covington and a whole bunch of first-round picks in the ’16 Draft. I have no doubt the 76ers will begin to resemble the Suns of Mike D’Antoni (hey, isn’t that Mike D’Antoni on the Sixers’ bench?) in philosophy if not in personnel, at least just yet. A successful ’16-’17 season would have Embiid getting through the season healthy, Saric coming over from Europe and contributing, a rookie point guard (Kris Dunn Kris Dunn Kris Dunn) who could develop into something special and 25-30 wins. Steve Aschburner, NBA.com: Wonder of wonders, the best guy to take over the Sixers just happens to be related to the big-rep consultant they hired in search of a fix. I’m not big on nepotism, outside of Mom & Pop shops and Mumford & Sons, so maybe I’m a little too skeptical of Bryan Colangelo as turnaround artist. But heck, Philadelphia had to do something. In a league that has gone away from traditional post play, the Sixers have stocked up on big guys and still don’t have the proper trendy perimeter parts around them. Maybe Colangelo can parlay the roster’s assets into a better mix, maybe he has to embark on a rebuilding from the rebuild. Here’s a low bar for 2016-17 success: Try not to lose 60 games for a change. The Sixers have averaged 66 over the past three seasons. Fran Blinebury, NBA.com: Yes. Taking the baton from his dad, Jerry, Bryan has a solid track record and now he’s been left a cupboard full of very nice assets by the departed Sam Hinkie. A successful 2016-17 season is one where the Sixers get back into the business of actually trying to win and improve. More important than setting a bar at, say, 25 wins is getting Joel Embiid finally in uniform and playing, getting Dario Saric finally in the NBA, Jahlil Okafor growing up and making the most of their lottery pick in June, then convincing some veteran talent to take some of that huge money available under the salary cap join the cause. Scott Howard-Cooper, NBA.com:  Yes, good move. Bryan has the credentials to get past the claim that his hire was a nepotism pick because his father had a big role in the decision. I’m not guaranteeing a successful run as a GM, but I will guarantee he has credibility, is positioned to be successful and would eventually have been hired somewhere if not Philadelphia. There is no single definition of forward progress for Sixers fans. Getting to the mid-20s in the wins would be a good step based on what we know now, but I’ll hold off on that number until we have a better idea of the roster. For now, successful looks like a good outcome on the Okafor-Noel decision, Embiid finally getting healthy, adding at least one experienced contributor and encouraging signs from the 2016 lottery pick and Dario Saric as he comes from Europe. Shaun Powell, NBA.com: Good move getting Colangelo, if only because he was the best among the unemployed. He’s a two-time Executive of the Year choice, so clearly he knows the turf, brings contacts and has had success. He’ll also reap the benefits of Sam Hinkie‘s pain, fair or not, provided he doesn’t screw up all the assets Hinkie left behind. A successful 2016-17 has a mature and improved Okafor, and a veteran addition who’s still in his productive prime, and a tight Rookie of the Year fight between Joel Embiid and whomever the Sixers take with their 2016 first-rounder. John Schuhmann, NBA.com:  Time will tell. Colangelo has an eye for talent and put together the core that has set the Raptors’ franchise record for wins each of the last three years. But his ratio of good moves vs. bad moves isn’t necessarily better than that of Sam Hinkie, who was pushed aside because it took too long for his plan to come to fruition. A successful ’16-17 for Philly would include a young core that looks more like a team. The pieces need to start fitting together (there needs to be a playmaker or two to complement the frontcourt talent) and we need to see progress from Joel Embiid (he needs to play), Jahlil Okafor (he needs to defend) and Dario Saric (he needs to orient himself to the NBA). Sekou Smith, NBA.com: Good move and potentially more than that, if Colangelo is able to craft a roster similar to the ones he put together in his previous stops. Success next season for the Sixers would include some tangible player development in youngsters like Nerlens Noel and Kahlil Okhafor and an actual Joel Embiid (in uniform and on the active roster) sighting. And, of course, whoever they use all of these assets on in the Draft showing up and making an immediate impact. The bar isn’t terribly high for Colangelo in his first season at the helm. No one’s asking for miracles. Just make the Sixers respectable and that’s more than enough for the first year. Ian Thomsen, NBA.com: It’s a fascinating switch. Hinkie was almost idealistic in his longterm approach; Colangelo lives in the here and now. If he has money to spend (or an extra big man to trade) and a good player is available, then the deal is going to be made. Success will hinge entirely upon the health of Joel Embiid: If he is healthy and dynamic, then we are going to be talking about the rebirth of the center position between him, Karl-Anthony Towns, DeMarcus Cousins and Andre Drummond. Because Embiid has the talent to change the outlook in Philadelphia – as Hinkie himself imagined. Lang Whitaker, NBA.com’s All Ball blog: I mean, I don’t think it’s a bad move. I understand that the plan was to bottom out and then rebuild, but they started from the bottom and they are still there. From afar, it would seem that Hinkie was pretty good at the obtaining assets part of his job, and perhaps wasn’t as good at the talent evaluation part of the job. He leaves the Sixers with a ton of draft picks and, basically, nothing but upside. Which is a nice place for Bryan Colangelo to suddenly find himself. I don’t know if Hinkie was planning on starting the rebuilding process in earnest just yet, but The Process is out the window. I think at this point, any measure of progress beats process. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: Blogtable, HT News / Tags: , Bryan Colangelo, Dario Saric, David Aldridge, Fran Blinebury, Ian Thomsen, Jerry Colangelo, Joel Embiid, John Schuhmann, Lang Whitaker, Nerlens Noel, Philadelphia 76ers, Sam Hinkie, Scott Howard Cooper, Sekou Smith, Shaun Powell, Steve Aschburner / Comments Off on Blogtable: Outlook on 76ers’ future? / Blogtable: State of Cavs as playoffs near? April 13, 2016  ·  11:35 AM ET Each week, we’ll ask our stable of scribes across the globe to weigh in on the most important NBA topics of the day — and then give you a chance to step on the scale, too, in the comments below. BLOGTABLE: State of Cavs as playoffs near? | Outlook on 76ers’ future? | Your All-Rookie team picks are? VIDEO: Kevin Love talks after the Cavs’ win > The Warriors are the No. 1 seed in the West and appear to be better than they were last year. The Cavs are the No. 1 seed in the East. Are they better than they were last year? David Aldridge, TNT analyst: Yes, if only because Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving appear to be fully healthy going into the playoffs. And Tyronn Lue made the right call starting Tristan Thompson at center, giving the Cavs a chance to put their most athletic and dangerous lineup on the floor together in the playoffs — which would feature Iman Shumpert (if healthy) at the three and LeBron at the four (if LeBron will do it). Will be interesting to see how Lue splits minutes at the point — Cleveland’s best defensive lineups feature Matthew Dellevadova rather than Irving. I think all the soap opera stuff that follows the Cavs during the regular season dissipates once the playoffs begin. They have a much easier path to The Finals compared with Golden State. Steve Aschburner, NBA.com: The Cavaliers are better for several reasons, chiefly (knock on wood) because they’re healthier than the crew that played five of six Finals games without Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving. Love was lost in the first round against Boston, Irving was already gimpy before he went out in Game 1 against Golden State, and LeBron James was left to shoulder the load while steering along the likes of Tristan Thompson and Matthew Dellavedova on training wheels. That was valuable experience for those role players, and both Irving and Love are relatively OK and eager to create some postseason highlights of their own. Channing Frye was a nice “get” at the trade deadline as a stretch big. Having Tyronn Lue as head coach removes some tension from the sideline that apparently existed last year under David Blatt. Finally, James can hear the clock ticking – he’s been to five straight Finals, but is 2-3 in them and would love to check off the “Championship for The ‘Land” box sooner rather than later. That’s a good urgency for the Cavaliers right now. Fran Blinebury, NBA.com: Physically, yes. Kyrie Irving is recovered. So is Kevin Love. LeBron is LeBron. Mentally, well, that’s a whole different story. Rarely has there been a 57-win team where you have to wonder if their heads and hearts are really in it together. They have the best roster in the East. Now they just have to act like it. Scott Howard-Cooper, NBA.com: No. At least not yet. The Cavs can get there — one impressive stretch in the playoffs and the bandwagon will fill pretty quick — but the team capable of winning a championship a year ago has just as much or more to prove in 2016. The mood in the locker room sans coach David Blatt might be better, but that doesn’t mean the team that got to a Game 6 of The Finals despite being so shorthanded is better. And the mood might not be better. I’ll wait for the next foggy LeBron James tweet to let you know for sure. Shaun Powell, NBA.com: Cleveland looks pretty much the same, with marginal improvements in defense and court awareness but still dragging an annoying habit of inconsistency with Kevin Love and Kyrie Irving, the two non-LeBron players who matter most. Bottom line, though: Whether the Cavs are better or worse than they were last season after 82 games is meaningless. What matters is whether the 2016 postseason is better than the 2015 postseason. John Schuhmann, NBA.com: Technically, yes. History tells us how important it is to rank in the top 10 defensively, and the Cavs rank in the top 10 in defensive efficiency after ranking 20th last season. But they weren’t a very consistent defensive team, regressed on that end under Tyronn Lue, and aren’t at their best defensively when both Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love on the floor. Though they’re healthier this season, they’re not any more likely to win a championship. Sekou Smith, NBA.com: The Cavaliers were not the No. 1 seed in the East last year, so by that standard alone they are a better team right now than they were this time last year. They are certainly going into the postseason healthy and with the working knowledge of how to manage this process as a group. LeBron James is sharpening his game at just the right time and having both Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love in a good groove bodes well for the Cavaliers making another deep playoff trip. All that said, I’m not sure they have any better shot at capturing the Larry O’Brien Trophy this time around. There are two Western Conference powers a clear cut above them in my eyes. Ian Thomsen, NBA.com: I’m not so sure the Warriors are better. They won more games this year, they’re more sure of themselves than ever and their integrity is second to none. But are they as strong defensively as last year? It’s something to watch for in the playoffs. The Cavs were playing at a higher level last year, no doubt. By Game 3 of the NBA Finals, however, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love were gone. If they stay healthy this time, will their upside be higher? Undoubtedly so: They begin the playoffs with a bigger advantage in the East than the Warriors have in the West. And if the Cavs reach The Finals with LeBron, Irving and Love playing at a high level, who’s to say they can’t win? Lang Whitaker, NBA.com’s All Ball blog: I don’t know. Or at least, I haven’t seen enough of this Cavs team under Tyronn Lue to come to a conclusion. Think of the way the Cavs played last year during the postseason, particularly The Finals — LeBron basically walking the ball up, using the shot clock, trying to create something. This was partly due to injuries, sure, but also because that seemed to be the Cavs’ default on the offensive end. Of late the Cavs seem to be playing with more energy and verve. Which Cavs team will we see in the postseason? that could make all the difference. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: Blogtable, HT News / Tags: , Cleveland Cavaliers, David Aldridge, Fran Blinebury, Ian Thomsen, J.R. Smith, John Schuhmann, Kevin Love, Kyrie Irving, Lang Whitaker, LeBron James, Scott Howard Cooper, Sekou Smith, Shaun Powell, Steve Aschburner, Tristan Thompson / Comments Off on Blogtable: State of Cavs as playoffs near? / Blogtable: Your All-Rookie first team picks? April 13, 2016  ·  11:30 AM ET Each week, we’ll ask our stable of scribes across the globe to weigh in on the most important NBA topics of the day — and then give you a chance to step on the scale, too, in the comments below. BLOGTABLE: State of Cavs as playoffs near? | Outlook on 76ers’ future? | Your All-Rookie team picks are? VIDEO: Kia Awards: Karl-Anthony Towns > It’s awards time. Name your 2015-16 All-Rookie first team. David Aldridge, TNT analyst: Karl Anthony-Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Jahlil Okafor, Philadelphia 76ers Emmanuel Mudiay, Denver Nuggets Justise Winslow, Miami Heat Towns is a no-brainer lock for Kia Rookie of the Year and looks like a cornerstone, franchise-level talent. Porzingis was sensational the first half of the season for the Knicks and displayed an all-around game that augers very well for his future. He not only could score and shoot from multiple places on the floor, he stuck his nose in there and rebounded quite well. Okafor was a one-dimensional offensive player, but displayed the low post skills that made him such a desirable Lottery pick. He’ll have to really dedicate himself to getting in better shape and giving a better effort defensively in future years, but there’s a lot to work with there. Mudiay (and fellow rookie Nikola Jokic) looks like a keeper in Denver and a solid point guard of the future. Winslow was outstanding at the defensive end for Miami and stepped in right away to play big minutes when the Heat was decimated by injury. Steve Aschburner, NBA.com:  Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Nikola Jokic, Denver Nuggets Devin Booker, Phoenix Suns Justise Winslow, Miami Heat Towns already was pushing for consideration as an all-NBA center on my ballot, and Timberwolves fans are understandably nervous — after years of letdowns and washouts — that so much has gone so right with this kid. I liked Porzingis from the first game I saw him play in the Las Vegas Summer League, and his demeanor kicks his potential to another level. Jokic and Booker managed to develop nicely in difficult situations and Winslow struck me as a no-nonsense, mature rookie even before he benefited from all those mature Miami vets. In a bumper crop of newbies, I had guys like Denver’s Emmanuel Mudiay, Charlotte’s Frank Kaminsky, Detroit’s Stanley Johnson, the Los Angeles Lakers’ D’Angelo Russell and Utah’s Trey Lyles in my next five, with Philadelphia’s Jahlil Okafor and Miami’s Josh Richardson slipping in the rankings only for lack of game appearances. Fran Blinebury, NBA.com:  Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Nikola Jokic, Denver Nuggets Devin Booker, Phoenix Suns Justise Winslow, Miami Heat Does anybody need to justify KAT? He’s been the Kia Rookie of the Year since opening night. Porzingis has faded down the stretch, but showed all he needed to justify being the No. 4 pick and a foundational piece if the Knicks ever get around to rebuilding correctly. Jokic has been a double-double machine in Denver while playing low minutes. Booker came on in the second half to show star potential and now gives the perennially rebuilding Suns reason to get better by dealing away one of their other guards. Winslow was a solid defender right from the start and has shown steady improvement in his shooting to make him the first-round pick the Heat wanted. Scott Howard-Cooper, NBA.com:  Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Nikola Jokic, Denver Nuggets Devin Booker, Phoenix Suns Justise Winslow, Miami Heat   Towns, Porzingis and Jokic should be automatics to underline what was expected to be and then turned out to be an unusually good year for rookie big men. Along those lines, I will be interested to see the real outcome — after the real vote, not the NBA.com brilliance — for Jahlil Okafor in particular. He was one of the three or four best rookies when he played, but the season-ending knee injury after 53 appearances will almost certainly cost him. How much is the question. Shaun Powell, NBA.com:  Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Jahlil Okafor, Philadelphia 76ers Devin Booker, Phoenix Suns Emmanuel Mudiay, Denver Nuggets Admittedly, the last two on this list helped themselves in the final two months of the season, while there are two tough omissions: Nikola Jokic and Justise Winslow. Towns and Booker have the most star quality of the bunch. John Schuhmann, NBA.com:  Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Nikola Jokic, Denver Nuggets Devin Booker, Phoenix Suns Justise Winslow, Miami Heat   It was a great rookie class in regard to production, potential and depth. Towns is already one of the best centers in the league and will be a difference-maker on both ends of the floor for a long time. Porzingis tore up whatever timeline we had for him and looks like he, too, will be an impact player on both ends. Jokic is a skilled big in the mold of Marc Gasol, Booker was the Suns’ best player when Eric Bledsoe got hurt, and Winslow was one of the best wing defenders in the Eastern Conference and helped unlock the Heat’s successful small-ball lineups before Chris Bosh‘s absence forced them to play that way full-time. Jahlil Okafor had the numbers to earn consideration, but was a disaster defensively. Sekou Smith, NBA.com: Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Jahlil Okafor, Philadelphia 76ers Devin Booker, Phoenix Suns Emmanuel Mudiay, Denver Nuggets KAT should be a unanimous Kia Rookie of the Year winner for the job he’s done all season in Minnesota. Porzingis showed enough flashes to project as a future All-Star in New York, provided he continues to develop his frame and game. Okhafor’s off-court issues stained what was an otherwise solid first year. Booker and Mudiay could both see All-Star nods in the future. Booker looked like a long-lost Splash Brother the second half of the season and Mudiay played beyond his years from the start. Miami’s Justise��Winslow and Detroit’s Stanley Johnson are my sixth and seventh men. They could easily have been in that first five had they been Drafted into situations that required them to play larger roles. Ian Thomsen, NBA.com:  Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Myles Turner, Indiana Pacers Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Jahlil Okafor, Philaelphia 76ers Devin Booker, Phoenix Suns   Towns has a chance to be the NBA’s best player in a few years. Porzingis could join Chauncey Billups as the best teammate to ever play with Carmelo Anthony. Turner, who went No. 11, may turn out to rank among the three best players in the Draft. The disappointment is D’Angelo Russell, who may yet be a star. Amid this terrific class he has, in Year One at least, been a relative disappointment. Lang Whitaker, NBA.com’s All Ball blog:  Karl-Anthony Towns, Minnesota Timberwolves Kristaps Porzingis, New York Knicks Justise Winslow, Miami Heat Jahlil Okafor, Philadelphia 76ers Nikola Jokic, Denver Nuggets Filled out my ballot yesterday, and that’s the order I submitted to the NBA.  No surprises, I don’t think, other than maybe Jokic, who has mostly stayed under the radar but has been rather productive. For me the two toughest omissions were Denver’s Emmanuel Mudiay, who was basically thrown out there from the start of the season and competed all season, and Phoenix’s Devin Booker, who has impressed me all season, but particularly the last few weeks as he’s played an increasingly larger role for the Suns. Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to email (Opens in new window) Category: Blogtable, HT News / Tags: , D'Angelo Russell, David Aldridge, Denver Nuggets, Detroit Pistons, Devin Booker, Emmanuel Mudiay, Fran Blinebury, Ian Thomsen, Jahlil Okafor, John Schuhmann, Justise Winslow, Karl-Anthony Towns, Kristaps Porzingis, Lang Whitaker, Los Angeles Lakers, Miami Heat, Minnesota Timberwolves, New York Knicks, Nikola Jokic, Philadelphia 76ers, Phoenix Suns, Scott Howard Cooper, Sekou Smith, Shaun Powell, Stanley Johnson, Steve Aschburner / Comments Off on Blogtable: Your All-Rookie first team picks? / < Older Entries | Privacy Policy || Terms of Use || Comment Policy NBA.com | Hang Time Blog is proudly powered by WordPress.com VIP Entries (RSS) and Comments (RSS). Recent Posts Jersey ads, N.C. gender law among topics at Board of Governors meeting Numbers preview: Warriors-Rockets Numbers preview: Raptors-Pacers Reports: Wizards fire Wittman Jerry Colangelo on Hinkie, process: ‘At some point you’ve got to win’ Hang Time Podcast (Episode 234) Kobe’s Last Stand Report: Kings to dismiss George Karl Blogtable: Outlook on 76ers’ future? Blogtable: State of Cavs as playoffs near? Blogtable: Your All-Rookie first team picks? Morning shootaround — April 13 Playoff Scenarios: What’s at stake on final night of season Morning shootaround — April 12 Morning shootaround — April 11 Morning Shootaround — April 10 Morning Shootaround — April 9 Report: Ben Simmons won’t play in Rio Analytics Art: Lillard, Bryant, Horford among week’s worst shooters Analytics Art: Harris, Miles, Canter among week’s best shooters Morning shootaround — April 8 Morning shootaround — April 7 Hinkie steps down as Sixers’ GM Jerry Sloan says he has Parkinson’s disease Blogtable: Predicting the middle of the Eastern Conference playoff race NBA.com Writers     All Posts By:     Steve Aschburner     Fran Blinebury     Scott Howard-Cooper     Shaun Powell     Sekou Smith     John Schuhmann     Ian Thomsen     Lang Whitaker     Writers Blogtable CategoriesCategories Select Category 2011 All-Star 2011 NBA Draft 2011 Playoffs 2011 Trade Deadline 2012 2012 All-Star 2012 NBA Draft 2012 NBA Playoffs 2012 Summer League 2012 Trade Deadline 2012 Training Camps 2013 2013 All-Star 2013 Conference Finals: Pacers-Heat 2013 Conference Finals: Spurs-Grizzlies 2013 Conference Semis: Heat-Bulls 2013 Conference Semis: Knicks-Pacers 2013 Conference Semis: Spurs-Warriors 2013 Conference Semis: Thunder-Grizzlies 2013 NBA Draft 2013 NBA Finals: Spurs-Heat 2013 NBA Playoffs 2013 Summer League 2013 The Finals 2013 Trade Deadline 2014 All-Star 2014 Free Agency 2014 Hall of Fame 2014 NBA Draft 2014 NBA Playoffs 2014 Summer League 2014 Trade Deadline 2015 All-Star 2015 All-Star 2015 Free Agency 2015 NBA Draft 2015 NBA Playoffs 2015 Trade Deadline 2015 Trade Deadline 2016 All-Star 2016 Hall of Fame 2016 NBA Playoffs 2016 Trade Deadline About Last Night Air Check Analytics Art Blogtable Derrick Rose Returns Fantasy FIBA 2011 FIBA 2013 FIBA 2014 FIBA World Cup 2014 Film Study First Team Free Agency 2011 Free Agency 2012 Free Agency 2013 Free Agency 2014 Hall of Fame Hang Time One-On-One Hang Time Road Trip HT News HT Without Borders Injury Update Jump Ball Kobe’s Top 10s Labor London 2012 Morning Shootaround MVP Ladder NBA.com/Stats One Stat One Play One Team, One Stat Podcast Rio 2016 Rosen’s Report Shaqtin A Fool Sprite Slam Dunk Showdown Summer League The All-Star Debate Twitter Reacts Uncategorized USA Basketball Archives Archives Select Month April 2016  (38) March 2016  (98) February 2016  (101) January 2016  (108) December 2015  (95) November 2015  (103) October 2015  (113) September 2015  (80) August 2015  (69) July 2015  (135) June 2015  (111) May 2015  (132) April 2015  (134) March 2015  (91) February 2015  (109) January 2015  (125) December 2014  (99) November 2014  (109) October 2014  (137) September 2014  (133) August 2014  (140) July 2014  (217) June 2014  (213) May 2014  (265) April 2014  (222) March 2014  (183) February 2014  (165) January 2014  (176) December 2013  (157) November 2013  (174) October 2013  (193) September 2013  (108) August 2013  (89) July 2013  (217) June 2013  (204) May 2013  (210) April 2013  (246) March 2013  (217) February 2013  (203) January 2013  (202) December 2012  (190) November 2012  (238) October 2012  (121) September 2012  (85) August 2012  (122) July 2012  (231) June 2012  (156) May 2012  (202) April 2012  (164) March 2012  (154) February 2012  (140) January 2012  (145) December 2011  (141) November 2011  (32) October 2011  (22) September 2011  (36) August 2011  (20) July 2011  (19) June 2011  (155) May 2011  (130) April 2011  (135) March 2011  (156) February 2011  (137) January 2011  (129) December 2010  (123) November 2010  (125) October 2010  (111) September 2010  (95) August 2010  (73) July 2010  (149) June 2010  (118) May 2010  (154) April 2010  (142) March 2010  (42) Search for: twitter Tweets by @kenArms Most Viewed Posts Playoff Scenarios: What's at stake on final night of season Morning shootaround -- April 13 Blogtable: Your All-Rookie first team picks? Blogtable: State of Cavs as playoffs near? Report: Kings to dismiss George Karl Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.
