#ThisURL#
http://study.com/academy/topic/literature-lessons-for-grade-8-ccssela-literacyrl811.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/academy/lesson/what-is-a-ballad-definition-examples-quiz.html
http://study.com/academy/topic/understand-how-authors-use-source-material-ccssela-literacyrl89.html
http://study.com/articles/North_Carolina_State_Facts_and_Higher_Education_Information.html
http://study.com/article_directory/College_and_University_Overviews_(by_State).html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/article_directory/Glossary_of_Master%27s_Degree_Programs.html
http://study.com/academy/exam/course/common-core-ela-standards-grade-8-literature.html#unanswered
http://study.com/directory/category/Biological_and_Biomedical_Sciences.html
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
#Title#
Literature Lessons for Grade 8: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.10 - Videos & Lessons | Study.com
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies  Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Literature: Standards First Lesson  Ch 9: Literature Lessons for Grade 8: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.10 Overview Exams Course Watch short & fun videos Start Your Free Trial Today About This Chapter Use the following video lessons to reinforce independent reading comprehension. These lessons are just a part of our Grade 8 Common Core Literature course. Standard: By the end of the year, read and comprehend literature, including stories, dramas, and poems, at the high end of grades 6-8 text complexity band independently and proficiently. About This Chapter Students who have mastered this standard are able to read independently a variety of literature types. When responding to their readings, in writing or discussions, students will be able to demonstrate a high degree of comprehension. Lessons in this standard address concepts such as: Tips for summarizing, interpreting and analyzing prose and poetry Understanding themes, motifs and characters Using inferences, context clues and visualizing in bolstering comprehension Understanding historical settings in which authors accomplished their works, to better comprehend their writings Students establish proficiency in this standard when discussing or writing about works of literature appropriate for their grade level. They are able to cite textual evidence to support their analyses. Students' grasp of this standard supports their readiness for college and career because being able to understand grade level literature and respond in a thoughtful fashion makes them effective communicators. How to Use These Lessons in Your Classroom Here are some ideas for using these lessons to support instruction in the CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.10 standard: Themes and Analysis Lessons View the lesson pertaining to the themes and analysis of Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn with your students. Ask them to read the book over the coming days. Upon students' completion of reading, lead a classroom discussion checking for understanding of the book's themes. Assign essay topics to determine proficiency, in which students will cite textual evidence. Topics might include dialect, social constraints, morals of the time, the Mississippi River as a character and the book's place within the Realism or Regionalism movements. Tone and Mood Lessons Share the video lesson about Edith Wharton with your students. Share select portions of Ms. Wharton's autobiography, A Backward Glance: An Autobiography, with the class. Assign readings of Ethan Frome and House of Mirth. Discuss possible themes and plot points in these two books that Edith Wharton may have borrowed from her own life. Assign written essays comparing and contrasting the tone and mood in these two novels, asking students to cite textual evidence to support their analyses. Symbolism and Literary Effects Lessons View the lesson concerned with Edgar Allan Poe's poem The Raven with your students. Discuss poetic devices, looking at examples in this poem and additional works by Poe. Ask students to write short essays explaining the symbolism and literary devices used in The Raven to create the darkly romantic effects of this well-known poem. Literature Choices for Lessons In addition to the authors and literature listed above, we offer lessons pertaining to other authors and writing pieces appropriate for the end of 8th grade, including: Langston Hughes Walt Whitman Emily Dickinson Henry Wadsworth Longfellow Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels and A Modest Proposal John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men Daniel Defoe's Robinson Crusoe 14 Lessons in Chapter 9: Literature Lessons for Grade 8: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.10 1. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Themes and Analysis In this lesson, we will continue our exploration of Mark Twain's most acclaimed work, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, through an analysis of plot, characters, and theme. 2. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Plot Summary and Characters In this lesson, we will learn about Mark Twain's most acclaimed work, Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, through a close examination of characters and plot. 3. Langston Hughes & the Harlem Renaissance: Poems of the Jazz Age Langston Hughes was a popular poet from the Harlem Renaissance. His Jazz Age poems, including 'Harlem' and 'I, Too, Sing America,' discussed the racism facing African Americans in the 1920s and '30s. 4. Walt Whitman: Transcendental and Realist Poet Walt Whitman is now considered one of the greatest American poets of all time, but his work was not so well-loved when it first debuted. Find out what made the man and his poems so controversial. 5. Walt Whitman's Poetry and Transcendentalism In this lesson, we're going to study the poetry of Walt Whitman. We're also going to take a close look at Transcendentalism, a spiritual and literary movement of 19th-century America. 6. Emily Dickinson: Poems and Poetry Analysis Emily Dickinson was a well-known poet of the mid-1800s whose numerous works have stood the test of time. But what in the world did her poems really mean? In this video, we'll explore one of her most recognized pieces and analyze its meaning and purpose. 7. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow: Poem Analysis Henry Wadsworth Longfellow was known as a fireside poet because his poems were read by the fire as a means of entertainment. Learn about how he created American history through the use of musical elements, like rhythm and rhyme scheme. 8. Jonathan Swift and Satire: Examples and Analysis When it comes to English-language satire, few authors can top the legendary Jonathan Swift. Watch this lesson to learn about his two most important works, 'A Modest Proposal' and 'Gulliver's Travels'. 9. Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift: Satire, Parody, and Folly In this lesson, we're going to explore Jonathan Swift's book Gulliver's Travels. We'll review the plot and then see how Swift incorporates satire and parody to show the depths of human folly. 10. A Modest Proposal by Jonathan Swift: Satire and Social Commentary In this lesson, we're going to learn about satire by examining Jonathan Swift's essay A Modest Proposal. We'll see how Swift uses satire to make important social commentary. 11. Robinson Crusoe: Summary and Themes In this lesson, we'll explore Daniel Defoe's 'Robinson Crusoe' while examining themes present in the work. You may also learn some handy skills if you ever find yourself shipwrecked and having to survive on an island for 28 years. 12. Of Mice and Men: Summary and Analysis of Steinbeck's Style John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men is one of the most enduring American stories of friendship. Watch this video lesson to learn about its characters, main plot events and key themes. 13. Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven: Summary and Analysis This video introduces Edgar Allan Poe's 'The Raven.' Through Poe's use of poetic devices and dark Romantic characteristics, he is able to achieve the 'unity of effect' to appeal to critics and the masses both during his time and even still today. 14. What is a Ballad? - Definition & Examples Let's learn about the poetical form of the ballad and examine two of the most famous English ballads. We will learn about the common traits of ballads and how they relate to modern music. Organize and save your favorite lessons with Custom Courses About Create Edit Share Custom Courses are courses that you create from Study.com lessons. Use them just like other courses to track progress, access quizzes and exams, and share content. Teachers Organize and share selected lessons with your class. Make planning easier by creating your own custom course. Students Add important lessons to your Custom Course, track your progress, and achieve your study goals faster. Next: Creating a Custom Course Create a new course from any lesson page or your dashboard. From any lesson page: Click "Add to" located below the video player and follow the prompts to name your course and save your lesson. From your dashboard: Click on the "Custom Courses" tab, then click "Create course". Next, go to any lesson page and begin adding lessons. Next: Editing a Custom Course Edit your Custom Course directly from your dashboard. Personalize: Name your Custom Course and add an optional description or learning objective. Organize: Create chapters to group lesson within your course. Remove and reorder chapters and lessons at any time. Next: Sharing a Custom Course Share your Custom Course or assign lessons and chapters. Teacher Edition: Share or assign lessons and chapters by clicking the "Teacher" tab on the lesson or chapter page you want to assign. Students' quiz scores and video views will be trackable in your "Teacher" tab. Premium Edition: You can share your Custom Course by copying and pasting the course URL. Only Study.com members will be able to access the entire course. Got it! Practice Exams Final Exam Status Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Literature: Standards Status: Not Started  Take Exam Chapter Exam Status Literature Lessons for Grade 8: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.10 Status: Not Started  Take Exam Description Summary: Visit the Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Literature: Standards page to learn more. Earning Credit Earning College Credit Did you know… We have over 49 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 2,000 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. To learn more, visit our Earning Credit Page Transferring credit to the school of your choice Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Research Schools, Degrees & Careers Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse Articles By Category Browse an area of study or degree level. Area of Study Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Degree Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Recommended Articles Related Recently Updated Popular List of Free Online Chinese Language Courses and Video Lessons List of Free Guitar Courses and Lessons List of Free Online Management Courses and Lessons List of Free Online Italian Courses and Lessons List of Free Online Data Entry Courses and Lessons List of Free Online German Courses and Lessons List of Free Online French Language Lessons and Courses Online Sign Language Lessons, Classes and Courses List of Free Online Japanese Lessons and Courses List of Free Online Calculus Courses and Lessons Canvasser: Job Description, Duties and Salary Graduate Certificate in Entrepreneurship: Online Certificate Online Associate Degree in Homeland Security: Program Information Graduate Schools Nashville Tennessee Maine Education and State Information Mahwah, New Jersey (NJ) Colleges North Carolina State Facts and Higher Education Information Michelle Rhees Legacy and Future in Education Reform Other Chapters Other Chapters Other chapters within the Common Core ELA Grade 8 - Literature: Standards course Cite Textual Evidence: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.1 Analyze Themes: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.2 Analyze Dialogue: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.3 Analyze Word Choice: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.4 Analyze Structure of a Text: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.5 Analyze Point of View: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.6 Analyze Elements in Different Artistic Mediums: CCSS.CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.7 How Authors Use Source Materials: CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RL.8.9 Explore our library of over 10,000 lessons Search Browse Browse by subject College Courses Business English Foreign Language History Humanities Math Science Social Science See All College Courses High School Courses AP Common Core GED High School See All High School Courses Other Courses College & Career Guidance Courses College Placement Exams Entrance Exams General Test Prep K-8 Courses Skills Courses Teacher Certification Exams See All Other Courses Watch all the video lessons you want free for 5 days Select a plan to try & see why over 10 million users love Study.com Start Free Trial Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
