#ThisURL#
http://www.bartleby.com/titles/
#SubURL#
http://www.bartleby.com/37/3/
http://www.bartleby.com/people/ChapmanG.html
http://www.bartleby.com/people/Eliot-Ge.html
http://www.bartleby.com/320/1/
http://www.bartleby.com/307/
http://www.bartleby.com/3/5/
http://www.bartleby.com/people/Riis-Jac.html
http://www.bartleby.com/28/
http://www.bartleby.com/people/Poe-Edga.html
http://www.bartleby.com/36/6/
http://media.fastclick.net/w/click.here?sid=6096&m=6&c=1
http://media.fastclick.net/w/click.here?sid=6096&m=1&c=1
http://media.fastclick.net/w/click.here?sid=6096&m=3&c=1
#Title#
Index to Titles. Bartleby.com
#Content#
Select Search World Factbook Roget's Int'l Thesaurus Bartlett's Quotations Respectfully Quoted Fowler's King's English Strunk's Style Mencken's Language Cambridge History The King James Bible Oxford Shakespeare Gray's Anatomy Farmer's Cookbook Post's Etiquette Brewer's Phrase & Fable Bulfinch's Mythology Frazer's Golden Bough All Verse Anthologies Dickinson, E. Eliot, T.S. Frost, R. Hopkins, G.M. Keats, J. Lawrence, D.H. Masters, E.L. Sandburg, C. Sassoon, S. Whitman, W. Wordsworth, W. Yeats, W.B. All Nonfiction Harvard Classics American Essays Einstein's Relativity Grant, U.S. Roosevelt, T. Wells's History Presidential Inaugurals All Fiction Shelf of Fiction Ghost Stories Short Stories Shaw, G.B. Stein, G. Stevenson, R.L. Wells, H.G. Index to Titles       Address to the Christian Nobility of the German Nation, by Martin Luther. Advancement of Learning, by Francis Bacon. The Adventures of Odysseus and the Tale of Troy, by Padraic Colum. Æneid, by Vergil. Agamemnon, by Aeschylus. The Age of Fable, by Thomas Bulfinch. The Age of Innocence, by Edith Wharton. All for Love, by John Dryden. An American Anthology, 1787–1900, edited by Edmund Clarence Stedman. American Historical Documents: 1000–1904. The Americanization of Edward Bok, by Edward William Bok. The American Language, 2nd ed., by H.L. Mencken. The American National Song-Book, compiled by William McCarty. The American Novel, by Carl Van Doren. American Sonnets, compiled by T. W. Higginson and E. H. Bigelow. American Standard Edition of the Bible (Selections). Amores, by D.H. Lawrence. Anatomy of the Human Body, 20th ed., by Henry Gray. Anna Karenin, by Leo Tolstoy. The Answering Voice: 100 Love Lyrics by Women, compiled by Sara Teasdale. Antigone, by Sophocles. Anthology of Irish Verse, edited by Colum, Padraic. Anthology of Magazine Verse for 1920, edited by William Stanley Braithwaite. Anthology of Massachusetts Poets, edited by William Stanley Braithwaite. The Apology, Phædo and Crito of Plato. Apophthegms New and Old, by Francis Bacon. Areopagitica, by John Milton. Autobiography, by Benvenuto Cellini. Autobiography, by John Stuart Mill. An Autobiography, by Theodore Roosevelt. His Autobiography, by Benjamin Franklin.   Babbitt, by Sinclair Lewis. The Bacchæ, by Euripides. The Banner of the Upright Seven, by Gottfried Keller. Bartleby, the Scrivener, by Herman Melville. The Battle with the Slum, by Jacob Riis. The Beggar’s Opera, by John Gay. Beyond the Horizon, by Eugene O’Neill. The Bhagavad-Gita. King James Version of the Bible. A Bibliography of Theodore Roosevelt, by John Wheelock. A Blot in the ’Scutcheon, by Robert Browning. A Book-Lover’s Holidays in the Open, by Theodore Roosevelt. The Book of American Negro Poetry, edited by James Weldon Johnson. The Book of Elizabethan Verse, edited by William Stanley Braithwaite. The Book of Georgian Verse, edited by William Stanley Braithwaite. The Book of New York Verse, edited by Hamilton Fish Armstrong. The Book of Restoration Verse, edited by William Stanley Braithwaite. The Book of the Sonnet, edited by Leigh Hunt and S. Adams Lee. The Book of Sorrow, edited by Andrew Macphail. A Book of Women’s Verse, edited by J. C. Squire. The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book, by Fannie Farmer. A Boy’s Will, by Robert Frost. Buddhist Writings.   Cambridge History of English & American Literature (18 vols.) Candide, or The Optimist, by Voltaire. The Cenci, by Percy Bysshe Shelley. Chapters from the Koran. Characteristics, by Thomas Carlyle. The Characters of Jean de La Bruyère. Charlotte Temple: A Tale of Truth, by Susanna Haswell Rowson. Chicago Poems, by Carl Sandburg. A Child’s Garden of Verses and Underwoods, by Robert Louis Stevenson. The Chronicles of Froissart, by Jean Froissart. Collected Poems, by Edwin Arlington Robinson. Collected Poems, by Rupert Brooke. Collected Poems by A.E., by George William Russell. A Collection of Verse by California Poets, edited by Augustin S. Macdonald. Colonial Prose and Poetry, edited by William P. Trent and Benjamin W. Wells. Common Sense, by Thomas Paine. Complete Poems, by Emily Dickinson. Complete Poems Written in English, by John Milton. Complete Poetical Works, by Geoffrey Chaucer. Complete Poetical Works, by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Complete Poetical Works, by Alexander Pope. Complete Poetical Works, Part 1, by Percy Bysshe Shelley. Complete Poetical Works, by Edmund Spenser. Complete Poetical Works, by William Wordsworth. Complete Works (12 vols.), by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Concerning Christian Liberty, by Martin Luther. The Confessions of Saint Augustine, by Saint Augustine. The Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever, by Oliver Wendell Holmes. The Coquette, or The History of Eliza Wharton, by Hannah Webster Foster. Cornhuskers, by Carl Sandburg. Counter-Attack and Other Poems, by Siegfried Sassoon. The Country of the Pointed Firs, by Sarah Orne Jewett. Crime and Punishment, by Fyodor Dostoevsky. The Cry for Justice: An Anthology of the Literature of Social Protest, edited by Upton Sinclair. Curiosities in Proverbs, compiled by Dwight Edwards Marvin. The Cynic’s Breviary, by Nicolas de Chamfort.     David Copperfield, by Charles Dickens. A Description of Elizabethan England, by William Harrison. The Devil’s Pool, by George Sand. Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, compiled by E. Cobham Brewer. Dictionary of Quotations, compiled by Rev. James Wood. A Dictionary of Similes, edited by Frank J. Wilstach. Discourse on Method, by René Descartes. The Divine Comedy, by Dante Alighieri. Dr. Faustus, by Christopher Marlowe. Don Quixote, Part 1, by Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra.   Edgar Huntley; or, Memoirs of a Sleep-Walker, by Charles Brockden Brown. The Education of Henry Adams, by Henry Adams. Edward the Second, by Christopher Marlowe. Egmont, by J.W. von Goethe. The Elements of Style, by William Strunk, Jr. Elizabethan Critical Essays, edited by G. Gregory Smith. Elizabethan Sonnets, compiled by Seccombe and Arber. Eminent Victorians, by Lytton Strachey. English Essays: Sidney to Macaulay. English Poetry I: Chaucer to Gray. English Poetry II: Collins to Fitzgerald. English Poetry III: Tennyson to Whitman. The English Poets: An Anthology in Five Volumes, edited by Thomas Humphry Ward. English Prose: An Anthology in Five Volumes, edited by Henry Craik. English Proverbs and Proverbial Phrases, compiled by William Carew Hazlitt. An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, by David Hume. Essays and English Traits, by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Essays, Civil and Moral, by Francis Bacon. Essays: English and American. Etiquette, by Emily Post. Every Day in the Year: A Poetical Epitome of History, edited by James and Mary Ford.   Fables, by Æsop. Fairies and Fusiliers, by Robert Graves. Familiar Quotations, 10th ed., compiled by John Bartlett. Familiar Short Sayings of Great Men, compiled by Samuel Arthur Bent. Fathers and Children, by Ivan Turgenev. Faust, Part I, by J.W. von Goethe. Five Short Stories, by Alphonse Daudet. Forty Thousand Quotations: Prose and Poetical, compiled by Charles Noel Douglas. The Frogs, by Aristophanes. Fruits of Solitude, by William Penn. The Furies, by Aeschylus.   The Golden Bough, Abridged ed., by Sir James George Frazer. The Golden Fleece and the Heroes Who Lived before Achilles, by Padraic Colum. The Golden Sayings of Epictetus. The Golden Treasury, by Francis Palgrave. Grocott’s Familiar Quotations, 6th ed. Guy Mannering, or the Astrologer, by Sir Walter Scott.   A Happy Boy, by Björnstjerne Björnson. The Harvard Classics & Shelf of Fiction (70 vols.), edited by Charles William Eliot. A Harvest of German Verse, selected and translated by Margarete Münsterberg. The Haunters and the Haunted, edited by Ernest Rhys. Hermann and Dorothea, by J.W. von Goethe. Hesiod, Homeric Hymns, Epic Cycle, Homerica, translated by Hugh G. Evelyn-White. Hippolytus, by Euripides. History as Literature, by Theodore Roosevelt. History of the Civil War, 1861–1865, by James Ford Rhodes. The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling, by Henry Fielding. The Holy Grail, by Sir Thomas Malory. A House of Gentlefolk, by Ivan Turgenev. Household Tales, by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm. How the Other Half Lives, by Jacob Riis. Hoyt’s New Cyclopedia of Practical Quotations. Hunting Trips of a Ranchman, by Theodore Roosevelt. Hymns of the Christian Church.   The Iliad of Homer, translated by Butler, Samuel. Inaugural Address at Edinburgh, by Thomas Carlyle. Inaugural Addresses of the Presidents of the United States The Imitation of Christ, by Thomas à Kempis. The Invisible Man, by H.G. Wells. I Promessi Sposi, by Alessandro Manzoni. The Island of Doctor Moreau, by H.G. Wells. Ivan the Fool, by Leo Tolstoy.   Jim Smily and His Jumping Frog, by Mark Twain. The Journal of John Woolman, by John Woolman. Journeys in Diverse Places, by Ambrose Paré.   King James Version of the Bible. The King’s English, 2nd ed., by H.W. Fowler.   Language: An Introduction to the Study of Speech, by Edward Sapir. Leaves of Grass, by Walt Whitman. A Letter to a Noble Lord, by Burke, Edmund. Letters, by Cicero. Letters, by Pliny the Younger. Letters on the English, by Voltaire. Letters to His Children, by Theodore Roosevelt. The Libation-Bearers, by Aeschylus. A Library of American Literature: An Anthology in 11 Volumes, edited by E.C. Stedman & E.M. Hutchinson. Life Is a Dream, by Pedro Calderón de la Barca. The Life of Olaudah Equiano, or Gustavus Vassa, by Olaudah Equiano. The Life of Sir Thomas More, by William Roper. Literary and Philosophical Essays The Little Book of Modern Verse, edited by Jessie B. Rittenhouse. The Little Book of Society Verse, compiled by Fuess and Stearns. Little Women; or Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy, by Louisa M. Alcott. Lives, by Plutarch. The Lives of Donne and Herbert, by Izaak Walton. The Lives of the Saints, by Rev. Alban Butler. Lyra Sacra: A Book of Religious Verse, edited by H. C. Beeching.   The Magnificent Ambersons, by Booth Tarkington. The Making of an American, by Jacob Riis. Man and Superman, by Bernard Shaw. Manfred, by Lord Byron. The Man Who Was Thursday, by Gilbert Keith Chesterton. The Man without a Country, by Edward Everett Hale. The Marvellous Adventures of Sir John Mandeville, Kt. The Master of Ballantrae: A Winter’s Tale, by Robert Louis Stevenson. The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius. Memoirs of the Life of Colonel Hutchinson, by Lucy Hutchinson. Metaphysical Lyrics & Poems of the 17th c., compiled by Herbert J.C. Grierson. The Mill on the Floss, by George Eliot. Minna von Barnhelm, by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Miscellaneous Poems to 1920, by Robert Frost. Moby-Dick; or, The Whale, by Herman Melville. Modern American Poetry, compiled by Louis Untermeyer. Modern British Poetry, compiled by Louis Untermeyer. Modern Essays, edited by Christopher Morley. Modern Russian Poetry, chosen and translated by Deutsch and Yarmolinsky. Monday or Tuesday, by Virginia Woolf. Moral Maxims and Reflections, by François, duc de La Rochefoucauld. Mountain Interval, by Robert Frost. The Mysterious Affair at Styles, by Agatha Christie.   The New Atlantis, by Francis Bacon. The New Organon, by Francis Bacon. New Poems, by D.H. Lawrence. The New Poetry: An Anthology, edited by Harriet Monroe. New York, by Theodore Roosevelt. The Ninety-Five Thesis, by Martin Luther. North of Boston, by Robert Frost. Notre Dame de Paris, by Victor Marie Hugo.   The Oath and Law of Hippocrates, by Hippocrates. The Odyssey, by Homer. The Odysseys of Homer, Vol. 1, by George Chapman. Oedipus the King, by Sophocles. Of Man, Being the First Part of Leviathan, by Thomas Hobbes. Of the Wisdom of the Ancients, by Francis Bacon. Old Goriot, by Honoré de Balzac. The Old Huntsman and Other Poems, by Siegfried Sassoon. One of Ours, by Willa Cather. On Friendship, by Cicero. On Liberty, by John Stuart Mill. On Liberty, by John Stuart Mill. On Old Age, by Cicero. On Taste, by Burke, Edmund. On the Antiseptic Principle of the Practice of Surgery, by Joseph Lister. On the Art of Reading, by Arthur Quiller-Couch. On the Art of Writing, by Arthur Quiller-Couch. On the Inequality among Mankind, by Jean Jacques Rousseau. On the Motion of the Heart and Blood in Animals, by William Harvey. On the Principles of the Christian Religion, by Lucy Hutchinson. On the Sublime and Beautiful, by Edmund Burke. Order and Disorder, by Lucy Hutchinson. The Origin of Species, by Charles Darwin. Others for 1919: An Anthology of the New Verse, edited by Alfred Kreymborg. The Oxford Book of American Essays, edited by Brander Matthews. The Oxford Book of Australasian Verse, chosen by Walter Murdoch. The Oxford Book of Ballads, compiled by Arthur Quiller-Couch. The Oxford Book of Canadian Verse, chosen by William W. Campbell. The Oxford Book of English Verse, compiled by Arthur Quiller-Couch. The Oxford Book of English Mystical Verse, edited by Nicholson & Lee. The Oxford Book of French Verse, compiled by St. John Lucas. The Oxford Book of Latin Verse, compiled by Heathcote William Garrod. The Oxford Book of Victorian Verse, compiled by Arthur Quiller-Couch. The Oxford Shakespeare, by William Shakespeare.   Parnassus An Anthology of Poetry, by Ralph Waldo Emerson. Pepita Jimenez, by Juan Valera. Persian Letters, by Montesquieu. Personal Memoirs of U.S. Grant, by Ulysses S. Grant. Phædra, by Jean Racine. Picture-Show, by Siegfried Sassoon. The Pilgrim’s Progress, by John Bunyan. The Playboy of the Western World, by J.M. Synge. Poems, by T.S. Eliot. Poems, by Gerard Manley Hopkins. Poems, by Sir Walter Raleigh. Poems, by Oscar Wilde. Poems and Songs, by Robert Burns. The Poems of Matthew Arnold, 1840–1867, by Matthew Arnold. The Poems of John Donne, by John Donne. The Poems of John Dryden, by John Dryden. Poems of Places: An Anthology in 31 Volumes, by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral, by Phillis Wheatley. Poetica Erotica: Rare and Curious Amatory Verse, compiled by T.R. Smith. The Poetical Works, by William Blake. The Poetical Works, by Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey. Poetical Works, by John Keats. The Poetical Works in Four Volumes, by John Greenleaf Whittier. The Poetical Works, by Sir Thomas Wyatt. Poetry: A Magazine of Verse, 1912–22, edited by Harriet Monroe. Poetry of Byron, by Lord Byron. The Poets’ Bible: New Testament, compiled by W. Garrett Horder. The Poets of Transcendentalismt: An Anthology, edited by George Willis Cooke. Political Debates Between Lincoln and Douglas, by Abraham Lincoln. Polyeucte, by Pierre Corneille. The Portrait of a Lady, by Henry James. Pride and Prejudice, by Jane Austen. The Prince, by Niccolo Machiavelli. Profession of Faith of a Savoyard Vicar, by Jean Jacques Rousseau. Prometheus Bound, by Aeschylus. Prose Quotations from Socrates to Macaulay, compiled by S. Austin Allibone. Prose Works, by Walt Whitman. Proverbs, Maxims and Phrases of All Ages, compiled by Robert Christy. Prufrock and Other Observations, by T.S. Eliot. Pygmalion, by Bernard Shaw.   Ranch Life and the Hunting Trail, by Theodore Roosevelt. Reflections on the French Revolution, by Burke, Edmund. Relativity: The Special and General Theory, by Albert Einstein. Religio Medici, by Sir Thomas Browne. Renascence and Other Poems, by Edna St. Vincent Millay. Respectfully Quoted: A Dictionary of Quotations. 1989. Responsibilities and Other Poems, by William Butler Yeats. The Rider on the White Horse, by Theodor Storm. The Rights of War and Peace, by Hugo Grotius. Rip Van Winkle & The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, by Washington Irving. Robert’s Rules of Order Revised, by Henry M. Robert. Roget’s International Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases. 1922. The Rough Riders, by Theodore Roosevelt.   The Sacred Poets of the Nineteenth Century, edited by Alfred H. Miles. The Sacred Wood, by T.S. Eliot. The Sayings of Confucius. The Scarlet Letter, by Nathaniel Hawthorne. The Scarlet Letter & Rappaccini’s Daughter, by Nathaniel Hawthorne. The School for Scandal, by Richard Brinsley Sheridan. Scientific Papers. Scientific Papers, by Charles Lyell. Scientific Papers, by Louis Pasteur. The Second Book of Modern Verse, edited by Jessie B. Rittenhouse. A Selection from His Thoughts, by Joseph Joubert. Selections from the Characters, Reflexions and Maxims, by Marquis de Vauvenargues. Select Poetry, Chiefly Devotional, of the Reign of Queen Elizabeth, edited by Edward Farr. Select Poetry, Chiefly Sacred, of the Reign of King James the First, edited by Edward Farr. A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy, by Laurence Sterne. She Stoops to Conquer, by Oliver Goldsmith. A Short History of the World, by H.G. Wells. The Short-Story, edited by Brander Matthews. A Shropshire Lad, by A.E. Housman. Sir Walter Scott, by Thomas Carlyle. Skipper Worse, by Alexander L. Kielland. The Sleeping Beauty and other Fairy Tales, by Arthur Quiller-Couch. Smoke and Steel, by Carl Sandburg. Social Contract & Discourses, by Jean Jacques Rousseau. Some Thoughts Concerning Education, by John Locke. The Sonnets of Europe, compiled by Samuel Waddington. The Sorrows of Werther, by J. W. von Goethe. The Souls of Black Folk, by W.E.B. Du Bois. Specimens of American Poetry, edited by Samuel Kettell. The Spirit of Man: An Anthology, edited by Robert Bridges. Spoon River Anthology, by Edgar Lee Masters. The Spy; a Tale of the Neutral Ground, by James Fenimore Cooper. The Standard Book of Jewish Verse, compiled by Joseph Friedlander. Stories from the Thousand and One Nights. The Story of a White Blackbird, by Alfred de Musset. The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, by Robert Louis Stevenson. The Strenuous Life, by Theodore Roosevelt.   Tales, by Hans Christian Andersen. Tales from Shakespeare, by Charles and Mary Lamb. Tartuffe, by Molière. Ten Days That Shook the World, by John Reed. Tender Buttons, by Gertrude Stein. Theodore Roosevelt, the Citizen, by Jacob Riis. The Thirty-nine Steps, by John Buchan. This Side of Paradise, by F. Scott Fitzgerald. A Thousand Flashes of French Wit, Wisdom, and Wickedness, compiled by J. De Finod. Three Dialogues, by George Berkeley. Three Lives, by Gertrude Stein. The Three Original Publications on Vaccination Against Smallox, by Edward Jenner. Three Plays, by Eugene O’Neill. Three Stories, by Francis Bret Harte. Three Stories, by Edgar Allan Poe. Through the Brazilian Wilderness, by Theodore Roosevelt. The Time Machine, by H.G. Wells. Tractate on Education, by John Milton. A Treasury of War Poetry, edited by George Herbert Clarke. Trials and Tribulations, by Theodor Fontane. Two Treatises on Government, by John Locke. Two Years before the Mast, by Richard Henry Dana, Jr.   Uncle Tom’s Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly, by Harriet Beecher Stowe. Up from Slavery: An Autobiography, by Booker T. Washington. Utopia, by Sir Thomas More.   Vanity Fair, A Novel without a Hero, by William Makepeace Thackeray. Verse 1885–1918, by Rudyard Kipling. A Victorian Anthology, 1837–1895, edited by Edmund Clarence Stedman. A Vindication of the Rights of Woman, by Mary Wollstonecraft. The Voyage of the Beagle, by Charles Darwin. Voyages and Travels: Ancient and Modern.   Walter Schnaffs’ Adventure & Two Friends, by Guy de Maupassant. The War of the Worlds, by H.G. Wells. The Waste Land, by T.S. Eliot. Wealth of Nations, by Adam Smith. Wessex Poems & Other Verses, by Thomas Hardy. The Wild Swans at Coole, by William Butler Yeats. Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship, by J. W. von Goethe. Wilhelm Tell, by Friedrich von Schiller. The Wind Among the Reeds, by William Butler Yeats. Winesburg, Ohio, by Sherwood Anderson. With Americans of Past and Present Days, by Jean Jules Jusserand. Woman and the New Race, by Margaret Sanger. Women Poets of the Nineteenth Century, edited by Alfred H. Miles. The World Factbook. 2008. The World’s Best Poetry: An Anthology in 9 Volumes, edited by Bliss Carman, et al. The World’s Famous Orations: An Anthology in 10 Volumes, edited by William Jennings Bryan. The World’s Wit and Humor: An Anthology in 15 Volumes, edited by Lionel Strachey, et al. The Writings of Thomas Paine, by Thomas Paine.   Yale Book of American Verse, by Thomas Lounsbury, comp.       Loading Shakespeare · Bible · Strunk · Anatomy · Nonfiction · Quotations · Reference · Fiction · Poetry © 1993–2015 Bartleby.com · [Top 150] · Subjects · Titles · Authors · World Lit.  
