#ThisURL#
http://study.com/articles/Students_Use_Video_Games_to_Stay_in_Shape.html
#SubURL#
http://study.com/article_directory/index.html
http://study.com/program/Penn_Foster_High_School_Diploma.html
http://study.com/articles/Bachelor_of_Information_Technology_BIT_Online_Information_Technology_Degree.html
http://study.com/academy/subj/math.html
http://study.com/pages/Career_Field_and_Degree_Program_Videos.html
http://study.com/articles/How_to_Become_a_TV_Reporter_Step-by-Step_Career_Guide.html
http://study.com/form/school.html?formId=CSU+Global
http://study.com/program/full_sail_university_ms_in_game_design.html
http://study.com/directory/category/Culinary_Arts_and_Personal_Services.html
http://study.com/academy/plans/teacher-group.html
http://www.facebook.com/StudyDotCom
http://twitter.com/studydotcom
http://www.bbb.org/sanjose/business-reviews/educational-consultants/remilon-1000006412#bbbseal
http://www.youtube.com/user/EducationPortalVideo/
http://support.study.com
https://plus.google.com/+EducationPortalVideo
#Title#
Students: Use Video Games to Stay in Shape
#Content#
for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Log In Menu Plans Courses Courses Find Courses by Subject Find Courses by Subject Science Math Business Psychology History English Social Science Humanities Spanish ACT & SAT Test Prep Teacher Certification Professional Development By Education Level By Education Level College High School Middle School Browse All Courses Explore Over 1000+ video courses Browse All Courses Credit Credit Credit Options Online College Credit High School & GED Certificates of Completion How it Works Earn Transferable Credit & Get your Degree fast Learn More Degrees Degrees Find Degrees by Subject Find Degrees by Subject Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education   Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts Find Degrees by Level By Level High School Diploma Associates Degrees Bachelor Degrees Master Degrees Online Degrees Search All Degrees Find a Degree that fits your Goals Search Degrees Schools Schools Browse Schools by Degree Level Browse Schools by Degree Level Graduate Degrees High School Diplomas Certificate Programs Post Degree Certificates Undergraduate Degrees Browse Schools Browse Schools Public Schools by State University Video Reviews Career Counseling & Job Center Career Counseling & Job Center Job Interviewing Tip Videos Job Networking Videos Résumé How To Videos Job Search Tips Career Videos Career Research Career Research Researching Careers Videos Glossary of Careers Career Info by Degree Job Outlook by Region Degree & Career Research Articles Create Account Contact Support Login Sign Up for Teachers   for Schools   for Companies Education Insider News Blog  /  Students: Use Video Games to Stay in... Students: Use Video Games to Stay in Shape Are you a video game nut? It's hard not to be with so many great games out on the market today. But how do you avoid becoming the stereotypical blob in front of a TV? You might be surprised to know that you can actually use video games to keep you fit. View 10 Popular Schools » Show me popular schools By Laura Allan Video games are a welcome reprieve from the stress of college life. You can escape to a different world for just a little while and forget your worries. The problem is that while you forget those worries you're often neglecting your health. It can be so easy to eat junk food and be stationary for hours on end. Time you could spend getting into better shape slips away in exchange for level-ups and boss fights. It doesn't have to be that way, though. Video games can actually be a key to getting you more fit. It can be even easier than going to a gym. Get a Motion-Based System Gaming has progressed over the years. It used to involve sitting on the couch and moving our thumbs only. But new technology means that game controls have undergone a metamorphosis. Now there are controllers that require physical motion to move characters, like those used for the Wii. There are also systems where your whole body is the controller, like the Xbox Kinect. If you're constantly required to move in order to play, you'll be exercising during your gaming time. The systems may be expensive, but if you look at them as exercise equipment they're actually fairly well priced (compare a Wii to an exercise bike and you'll find it's actually a pretty good deal). There are even exercise programs made for these systems that will get you in shape, like WiiFit. Make Snacks Available Beforehand Something gamers do while they play is snack. It becomes almost subconscious to just reach out and grab whatever food's on the table. While the usual choice is chips or soda, you can change that around. A great way to get in shape is to balance your diet better. Put bite-sized fruit like cherries or raisins on the table before you even begin to play. Carrot sticks or celery are also great ideas. If you don't usually eat your veggies, then this is a perfect opportunity to get them into your diet. You can use your gaming habit of snacking while you play to convince yourself to eat better and lose that freshman 15. Use Triggers If you don't have a new system and can't afford one, you can still use older systems to keep you fit. Even computer games work. All you have to do is set up a system of trigger events that remind you to exercise. Every time you beat a boss you have to do ten pushups. Every time you find a rare item you have to jog in place for 30 seconds. If a certain character appears or you level up you do 20 sit-ups. Get the idea? Basically your video games will be your personal trainer and tell you when to work out. You'll be looking forward to these in-game events, so it gives your exercising a little bit of positive reinforcement too. Play a Dancing Game The new systems aren't the only ones that force you to move. Back in the late 90's, there was a game released called Dance Dance Revolution. It featured fun music and a pad with arrows that you'd have to hit with your feet in rhythm. There were several variations and knockoffs of this game, and there are still different versions on today's more high-tech systems. These games are fun, incredibly exhausting and force you to move up in difficulty as you unlock new songs. The systems they're on are much less expensive than new ones ,and the equipment you need is easy to find used online. If you feel like getting out of the house, many arcades still have versions of this game as well. Distract Yourself Maybe you prefer handheld gaming to bulky consoles. If that's the case, it really opens up some options for you. Exercising on a treadmill or bike can drag on forever and get pretty boring. Games, on the other hand, are a wonderful distraction; time flies by while you play them. So why not combine them with your exercise? Go to the gym and bring your handheld gaming device. Get onto a machine that lets you have your hands free and set a timer for as long as you want to work out for. If you can game while you do it, you'll find that it comes easier to you, that you remain more relaxed and that it seems to end sooner than you expected. Curious about online education? Learn about these advantages of E-learning! Show me 10 popular schools Related to Students: Use Video Games to Stay in Shape RelatedRelated Articles Recently UpdatedRecent Articles PopularPopular Articles Audio Technician Career Video for Audio Technology Students Sports Medicine Career Video Tv Education Tv Repair Education Tv Editing Tv Producer Course How to Become a Tv Producer Careers in the Media and TV: Job Options and Requirements Learn about the education and preparation needed for a career in media and TV. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as... Salary and Career Information for a TV Host TV hosts require a significant amount of formal education. Learn about the education requirements and job duties to see if this... Careers in Video Game Animation: Job Options and Requirements Video game animation careers require some formal education. Learn about the schooling, job duties and experience required to... How to Become a Video Game Animator: Career Guide Research the requirements to become a video game animator. Learn about the job description and duties, and read the... TV Broadcaster: Career Profile Tv Production Schools Tv Production Degree TV Correspondent: Job Duties, Salary and Requirements TV Anchor: Job Description, Salary and Requirements How to Become a TV Technician: Education and Career Roadmap Top University in Philadelphia for a Public Administration Master's Degree Master of Information Systems: Online Degree Canvasser: Job Description, Duties and Salary Security Guard: Job Description, Duties and Salary How to Become a TV Reporter: Step-by-Step Career Guide Job Description of a TV Journalist Online Oriental Medicine Degree Program Information Brooklyn, NY: Career Info & Fastest Growing Careers Bus Driver: Job Description, Duties and Requirements Bachelor of Information Technology BIT Online Information Technology Degree How to Become a Heavy Equipment Technician Career Guide Online Associate Degree in Homeland Security Program Information Community Counseling Degree Programs in Louisville, KY How to Become a Board Certified Family Practice Doctor How to Become a Computer Security Expert Career Roadmap Nursing Aid Training Programs in CT Popular Schools An admission advisor from each school can provide more info about: programs & curriculum career opportunities tuition & financial aid admissions & starting dates 1Ashford University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be 18 years of age or older Programs offered by Ashford and listed below may not be related to the topic covered by the above article. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance Bachelor BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness Get Started with Ashford University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2Southern New Hampshire University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management Bachelor BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting Get Started with Southern New Hampshire University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3University of the Rockies School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Psychology programs do not lead to licensure and do not prepare an individual to become a licensed psychology professional An online degree does not lead to teacher licensure in any state; online education programs are not CAE or TEA or NCATE accredited which is a requirement for certification in some states. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling Get Started with University of the Rockies What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4Grand Canyon University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology Master M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Non-Degree Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching Get Started with Grand Canyon University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5Baker College Online School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Doctorate Doctorate in Business Administration Master MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management Bachelor BS in Psychology BS in Criminal Justice BBA (Accelerated Program) BS in Computer Science BS in Mobile Application Software Engineering BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Associate Associate of Business Administration AAS in Computer Programming Associate of Business in Accounting AAS Information Technology (IT Support Specialist) Non-Degree Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Project Management and Planning Get Started with Baker College Online Which degree level do you plan to pursue? Select One... Associate Bachelor Master Doctorate 6Full Sail University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations Bachelor BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography Get Started with Full Sail University What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 7Herzing University School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Must be a high school graduate or have completed GED School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management Bachelor BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies Associate AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Non-Degree Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems Get Started with Herzing University Which subject are you interested in? Select One... Business Design Health Care Public Safety Technology 8Penn Foster High School School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Students must be at least 14 years old and have completed the 8th grade. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs High School Diploma Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry Get Started with Penn Foster High School What is your highest level of education? Select One... Below 8th Grade 8th Grade 9th Grade 10th Grade 11th Grade 9University of Delaware School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Applicants must have a bachelor's degree or higher School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity Get Started with University of Delaware What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10Colorado State University Global School Info Minimum eligibility requirements: Undergraduate applicants must be a high school graduate or have completed GED and completed some college Master's degree applicants must have a bachelor's or higher. School locations: Online Learning Program Info Online Programs Master MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management Bachelor BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management Get Started with Colorado State University Global What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Perfect School Search What subject are you interested in? Select your preferred subject area Agriculture Architecture Biological and Biomedical Sciences Business Communications and Journalism Computer Sciences Culinary Arts and Personal Services Education Engineering Legal Liberal Arts and Humanities Mechanic and Repair Technologies Medical and Health Professions Physical Sciences Psychology Transportation and Distribution Visual and Performing Arts What degree level are you looking for? Select your preferred degree level Undergraduate   Associate   Bachelor Graduate   First Professional Degree   Master   Doctorate Post Degree Certificate   First Professional Certificate   Postbaccalaureate Certificate   Post Master's Certificate Non-Degree   Certificate   Coursework   Diploma High School Diploma Where do you want to attend class? Show me all schools Near my home Online schools only I want to choose a state Enter zip: Find Schools Choose a State Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Columbia (D.C.) Connecticut Delaware Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Puerto Rico Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Find Schools 10 Popular Schools 1 Ashford University MA-Psychology MS-Criminal Justice MBA - Media Management MBA MBA in Entrepreneurship MBA in Finance BA in Journalism and Mass Communication BA in Psychology BA in Business Administration BA in Communication Studies BA in Liberal Arts BA in Health and Wellness View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 2 Southern New Hampshire University MS in Criminal Justice MS in Psychology MA in Communication MBA MBA in Sport Management MBA in Information Technology Management BA in Psychology BA Psychology w/conc in Applied Psychology BA Communications w/conc in New Media BA in Communication BA in Psychology - Forensic Psychology BS in Accounting View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or G.E.D. Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Masters Degree Doctorate Degree Not yet graduated 3 University of the Rockies Doctor of Philosophy in Education - Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Doctor of Philosophy in Education Doctor of Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies Doctor of Philosophy in Human Services Doctor of Psychology in Non-Profit Management Doctor of Psychology in Organizational Leadership Master of Arts in Education Master of Arts in Psychology - General Psychology Master of Arts in Psychology - Criminology and Justice Studies MA in Psychology, Organizational Leadership MA in Psychology, Business Psychology MA in Psychology, Career Management & Counseling View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School or GED Some College (1-30 credits - up to 1 year) Some College (31-60 credits - up to 2 years) Some College/Associates (60+ credits) Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctorate Degree 4 Grand Canyon University Doctor of Business Administration - Management Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) EdD in Organizational Leadership - Health Care Administration EdD in Organizational Leadership - Special Education Ph.D. in General Psychology - Cognition and Instruction Ph.D. in General Psychology - Industrial and Organizational Psychology M.Ed. in Curriculum and Instruction: Technology M.S. Psychology with an Emphasis in Gerontology M.S. in Psychology with an Emphasis in Human Factors MA in Curriculum and Instruction MS in Criminal Justice: Legal Studies MS in Psychology: General Psychology Bachelor of Science in Business for Secondary Education BA in Communications BS in Applied Management BS in Psychology B.A. in Government with an Emphasis in Legal Studies Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education Graduate Certificate of Completion in GeroPsychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Industrial and Organizational Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Forensic Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Health Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Human Factors Psychology Graduate Certificate of Completion in Life Coaching View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Diploma or GED Some College Associates Degree or over 60 credits Bachelor Degree Master Degree or Higher Still in High School 5 Baker College Online Doctorate in Business Administration MBA in Business Intelligence MBA in General Business MBA in Human Resource Management MBA in Marketing MBA in Information Systems MBA in Health Care Management BS in Psychology BS in Criminal Justice BBA (Accelerated Program) BS in Computer Science BS in Mobile Application Software Engineering BS in Law Enforcement Academy (Police) Associate of Business Administration AAS in Computer Programming Associate of Business in Accounting AAS Information Technology (IT Support Specialist) Post Baccalaureate Certificate in Project Management and Planning When do you plan to begin your studies? Select One... Immediately 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-9 months 6 Full Sail University MS in Film Production MS in Game Design MS in Entertainment Business MS in New Media Journalism MFA in Creative Writing MS in Public Relations BS in Software Development Bachelor of Science - Cloud Technologies Bachelor of Science - Media Communications Bachelors Bachelor of Science Mobile Development Bachelors BS in Music Business BS in Digital Cinematography View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Student GED High School Graduate Attending College Associate's Degree Completed Bachelor's Degree Completed Master's Degree Completed No HS Diploma or GED 7 Herzing University Master of Business Administration MBA Dual Concentration: HR & Project Mgmt. MBA Dual Concentration: BS Mgmt. & HR MBA Dual Concentration in Business Mgmt & Project Mgmt MS in Nursing Education MBA in Technology Management BS in Business Admininstration - Business Management BS in Business Administration BS in Legal Studies BS in Graphic Design BS in Homeland Security & Public Safety BS in Entrepreneurial Studies AS in Business Administration AS in Legal Assisting and Paralegal Associate of Science - Business Studies AS in Graphic Design AS in Criminal Justice AS in Health Information Management Diploma in Medical Office Administration Diploma in Medical Assisting Diploma in Bookkeeping and Payroll Accounting Certificate in Networking Systems View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... High School Home Schooled GED/HSED Some College/CEGEP College Diploma Associate Degree Bachelor Degree Graduate Degree No HS Diploma or GED 8 Penn Foster High School Penn Foster High School with Early College Courses High School Diploma: Concentration in Health Care High School Diploma High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Electrical High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Plumbing High School Diploma: Concentration in Building Technology - Carpentry View more What is your age? Select One... 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 9 University of Delaware M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering Masters in Public Administration MS in Cybersecurity View more What is your highest level of education completed? Select One... Some College Associate Degree BS/BA Masters 10 Colorado State University Global MS in Teaching & Learning Master of Project Management Master of Finance Master of Professional Accounting Master - Human Resource Management Master of Healthcare Administration and Management BS in Communication BS in Human Services BS in Accounting BS in Project Management BS in Marketing BS in Healthcare Administration and Management View more What is your highest level of education? Select One... Some High School High School or GED 0-30 credits completed (Freshman) 31-60 credits completed (Sophomore) 61-90 credits completed (Junior) 91+ credit completed (Senior) Associate of Applied Science Associate of Arts or Science Associate of General Studies Bachelor's Degree Master's Degree Doctoral Degree Show more schools… Search Degrees, Careers, or Schools Follow Us: Home | About Us| Careers| Advertise With Us| Teach for Us| FAQ| Contact Support Terms of Use | Privacy Policy   Curriculum, relevancy of sample programs, and outcomes will vary by school. © copyright 2003- 2016 Study.com. All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. All rights reserved.
