#ThisURL#
https://www.research.net/s/5CBSY6S
#SubURL#
https://www.research.net/r/5CBSY6S?sm=fqeirrGqtM9O%2bnvVuNUOlg%3d%3d
https://es.surveymonkey.com/s/JGPYNK9
#Title#
Customer Satisfaction Survey
#Content#
Exit this survey Customer Satisfaction Survey Your Opinion Matters! Important note before completing the survey: under Florida law your survey response is considered public record. Any information you provide could be released in response to a public records request. If you would like to speak with someone about your customer service instead, please contact our Community Health & Performance Management Division at 727-824-6900 x4582. Para la encuesta en Español,por favor haga clic aquí: clic aqui 1. Please tell us the name of the EMPLOYEE who provided excellent service today! (If you can't provide a name, please enter NA). 2. Please provide the date that you received service. Date: MM / DD / YYYY 3. Please select service(s) received: * Other (specify below) ADAP Admitting/Eligibility Annual Exam Birth Control/Family Planning Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening Dental Environmental Health Essure Counseling General Information Home Visiting (Healthy Start/Healthy Families/Nurse Family Partnership) Immunizations Lab/Blood Work LIP Clinic Maternity Medical Records Pediatric Clinic Pregnancy Test Primary Care Refugee Health School Health Services STD Clinic TB Clinic Triage Nurse/Test Results Vasectomy Vital Statistics (Birth and Death Certificates) Weight Management Clinic WIC * Other specify: 4. Please select the location where you received service using the menu below. Clearwater Center (310 N. Myrtle Avenue) Mid-County Center (8751 Ulmerton Road) Pinellas Park Center (6350 76th Avenue N) Pinellas Park HS Largo/Ridgecrest Center (12420 130th Avenue N) St. Petersburg Center (205 Dr. MLK Jr. Street N) Tarpon Springs Center (301 S Disston Avenue) Boca Ciega High School Gibbs High School Northeast High School Home Visit Phone Website 5. Please rate your overall satisfaction with the service received. Very Satisfied Satisfied Neutral (Not Satisfied or Dissatisfied) Dissatisfied Very Dissatisfied 6. Please rate your level of agreement with the following statements:   Strongly Agree Agree Neither Agree nor Disagree Disagree Strongly Disagree a. I received the information or service that I needed. a. I received the information or service that I needed. Strongly Agree a. I received the information or service that I needed. Agree a. I received the information or service that I needed. Neither Agree nor Disagree a. I received the information or service that I needed. Disagree a. I received the information or service that I needed. Strongly Disagree b. I was served in a timely manner. b. I was served in a timely manner. Strongly Agree b. I was served in a timely manner. Agree b. I was served in a timely manner. Neither Agree nor Disagree b. I was served in a timely manner. Disagree b. I was served in a timely manner. Strongly Disagree c. I was treated with courtesy and respect. c. I was treated with courtesy and respect. Strongly Agree c. I was treated with courtesy and respect. Agree c. I was treated with courtesy and respect. Neither Agree nor Disagree c. I was treated with courtesy and respect. Disagree c. I was treated with courtesy and respect. Strongly Disagree d. Staff was friendly and polite. d. Staff was friendly and polite. Strongly Agree d. Staff was friendly and polite. Agree d. Staff was friendly and polite. Neither Agree nor Disagree d. Staff was friendly and polite. Disagree d. Staff was friendly and polite. Strongly Disagree 7. Comments: If you would like to provide additional comments, please provide information in the space below: If you were not satisfied with your service and you would like to speak to someone, please call our Community Health & Performance Management Division at: 727-824-6900 ext. 4582 Done T Javascript is required for this site to function, please enable.
